;Copyright (C) 1980 by
;Roy Trubshaw & Richard Bartle,
;Essex University, Colchester. CO4 3SQ.
;
;	This software is furnished on the understanding that
;it may be used and or copied only with the inclusion of this
;notice. No title or ownership of this software is hereby
;transferred. The information in this software is subject to
;change without notice. No responsibility is assumed for the
;use or reliability of this software.
;
;Released by Richard Bartle exclusively for not for profit use 
;18 May 2020 under GNU General Public Licence version 3
;https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html
;
*name	Mud
*persona	mud
@txtcbt
@txtlev
@txthrs
*rooms	420
@txtrms
nfrst1	light
	Dense forest.
	You are wandering around in some dense forest.
bunker
	Coal bunker.
	You are in a coal bunker, just off the cellar. The only way out is
	to the east, where there is the cellar doorway. The atmosphere is thick
	with coal dust. To the south is a very small tunnel which you couldn't
	possibly enter even if you tried. The coal dust is particularly
	thick and dusty in the region near the door.
rattun
	Rat tunnel.
splair
	Spider's lair.
nfrst2	light
	%nfrst1
	You are wandering around in some dense forest to the west of the
	foothills of some tall mountains.
nfrst3	light
	%nfrst1
	You are wandering around in some dense forest. To the west is the
	entrance to a misty graveyard.
nfrst4	light
	%nfrst1
	You are wandering around in some dense forest, to the east of a
	perilous cliff.
sfrst1	light
	%nfrst1
	You are wandering around in some dense forest, to the southwest of a
	pleasant pasture, to the east of a perilous cliff and to the south of
	a thundering waterfall. To the southeast is a glade in the forest.
sfrst2	light
	%nfrst1
	You are wandering around in some dense forest, to the south of a
	pleasant pasture, and to the west of a fuming swamp. To the southwest
	the forest opens up onto a magical glade.
glade	light
	Magical glade.
	You are in a magical glade, surrounded by forest. East and west it
	looks inpenetrable, but in the northerly directions the trees are
	less dense. In the southerly directions, the trees are of soft pine,
	and through them to the southwest can be glimpsed a sundial.
wabe	light
	Sundial in pine forest.
	This is part of a large pine forest. To the northeast, the forest opens
	up onto a magical glade, but in other directions is more forest, some
	of it too dense to allow passage. Before you stands an old, stone
	sundial, overgrown with ivy.
sett	light
	Entrance to badger's sett.
	You are in part of a large pine forest. Northwest, the forest opens up
	onto a magical glade, and in all other directions the forest continues,
	although in some the trees are too thick to permit passage. In front of
	you, in the ground, a hole leads downwards into a badger's sett.
insett	small	nolook
	Inside badger's sett.
	You are inside a small sett belonging to a badger. It looks as though
	the badger is hidden in a smaller hole above the entrance, but there is
	no conceivable way you can reach him. The room looks the ideal place to
	store objects, since the badger acts as guard. The only way out is up.
pines1	light
	Pine forest.
	You are wandering about amongst some soft pine trees. To the north the
	forest clears to become a glade, but everywhere else are more trees.
	Through the foliage to the northwest can be glimpsed a sundial.
pines2	light
	%pines1
	You are wandering around amongst some soft pine trees. All about you
	are more, some densely packed and others allowing passage through.
pines3	light
	%pines1
	You are wandering around amongst some soft pine trees. All about you
	are more, some densely packed and others allowing passage through.
	Eastwards, through the trees, can be glimpsed something resembling a
	bandstand.
sqrm	light	nolook
	Squirrel part of forest.
	This is the part of the forest used by squirrels, however they all
	scampered off when they heard you coming. All around you is forest,
	some passable, some not.
sqroom	light	nolook	dmove	sqrm
	%sqrm
	This is the part of the forest used by squirrels, and when you enter
	they all come scampering up to you, very playfully. In all directions
	is forest. The squirrels (all of which are red, naturally) are very
	happy to see you.
pines4	light
	%pines1
	You are wandering around amongst some soft pine trees. All about you
	are more, some densely packed and others allowing passage through. To
	the northeast through the trees can be made out a wooden building
	something like a bandstand. To the southeast there looks to be some
	sort of religious shrine.
pines5	light
	%pines1
	You are wandering around amongst some soft pine trees. All about you
	are more, some densely packed and others allowing passage through.
pines6	light
	%pines1
	You are wandering around amongst some soft pine trees. All about you
	are more, some densely packed and others allowing passage through.
	Through the trees to the southeast you can see what appears to be a
	bandstand.
pines7	light
	%pines1
	You are wandering around amongst some soft pine trees. All about you
	are more, some densely packed and others allowing passage through.
bstand	light
	Bandstand.
	You are stood in a bandstand in the midst of the pine forest. All around
	you are trees, denser in the easterly directions than in the westerly
	ones. The bandstand hasn't been used for some time, obviously with it
	being in the middle of a forest, and in places its paint is peeling, but
	it is nevertheless a surprisingly fine example.
gaptrm	light
	Golden appletree in pine forest.
	This part of the forest was obviously once an orchard in years gone by,
	since in among the firs can be seen appletrees, although they are
	sadly fruitless. However, one tree is taller than the rest, and
	coloured an enchanted golden.
whroom	light
	%pines1
	You are wandering around amongst some soft pine trees. All about you
	are more, some densely packed and others allowing passage through.
bbath	light
	Bird bath in pine forest.
	You are stood in amongst the trees of a pine forest. All around, the
	forest continues, although in some directions the trees are too thick
	to allow passage. Stood before you is an ornate stone birdbath, but
	the water it contains is not drinkable.
lionrm	light
	%pines1
	You are wandering around amongst some soft pine trees. All about you
	are more, some densely packed and others allowing passage through.
clffst	light
	%nfrst1
	You are wandering around in some dense forest, to the east of a
	perilous cliff.
wfrst1	light
	%nfrst1
	You are wandering around in some dense forest. To the east can be seen
	the entrance to a misty graveyard.
track1	light
	Beaten track near cliff.
	You are at the end of a rough track. There is a dangerous cliff to
	the west marked "Lovers' leap".
track2	light
	Beaten track.
	You're on a rough east - west track with a dense forest to the
	north and pasture to the south.
ostart	light
	Road opposite cottage.
	You are standing on a badly paved road with a cemetery to the north
	and the home of a grave-digger to the south. An inscription on the
	cemetery gates reads, "RESTING PLACE OF LOST SOULS".
road2	light
	Narrow road.
	You are on a narrow east-west road with forest to the north and
	gorse scrub to the south.
start	light	startrm
	Narrow road between lands.
	You are stood on a narrow road between The Land and whence you came.
	To the north and south are the small foothills of a pair of majestic
	mountains, with a large wall running round. To the west the road
	continues, where in the distance you can see a thatched cottage opposite
	an ancient cemetery. The way out is to the east, where a shroud of
	mist covers the secret pass by which you entered The Land.
wayout	light	nolook	chain	valley	road4
	You force yourself through the narrow, mist-covered gap...
wpstre	light
	West pasture.
	You are in comparatively pleasant pasture. To the south is a river, to
	the north a track. Eastwards the pasture is seen to continue, while to
	the northeast is the flower garden of a strange cottage. To the south
	flows a river.
clifff	light
	Cliff.
	You are standing on the edge of a cliff surrounded by forest to the
	north and a river to the south. A chill wind blows up the unclimbable and
	unscaled heights. At the base of the cliff you can just make out the
	shapes of jagged rocks.
fallin	light	dmove	beach	nolook
	Falling off cliff.
	You are falling off a very high cliff onto a beach.
slidin	nolook	dmove	uland3
	Sliding down chute.
	You are sliding down a slippery tunnel, twisting and turning tunnel at
	great speed.
epstre	light
	East pasture.
	Around you is a delightful pasture. To the south is a fast flowing
	stream. Further north and east you can see a woodman's hut and to
	the north is gorse scrub. Northwestwards you can see a strange,
	forbidding cottage, which you can enter via its french windows.
spstre	light
	South pasture.
	All about you is a pleasant pasture. To the north is a fast-flowing
	stream, and to the south is forest. Westwards is a thundering waterfall.
garden	light	nolook
	Flower garden.
	You are in a well-kept garden. There is an unexpectedly sweet smell
	here and you notice lots of flowers. To the east across a path there
	is more garden.
path	light
	Path.
	You are standing on a path which leads off a road to the north, to a
	cottage south of you. To the west and east are separate gardens.
patch	light
	Vegetable garden.
	You are standing in the middle of what was obviously a vegetable
	garden. However it has not been tended for years and most of the
	vegetables have run wild.
gorse	light
	Gorse.
	You are in a tangled mass of prickly gorse.
wfall	light
	Waterfall.
	Before you is an awe-inspiring sight; a waterfall plummets over a
	cliff and explodes in a dazzling crescendo of rainbow colour on the
	menacing rocks below.
river1	light
	River.
	You are on the bank of a fast flowing river with pasture to the north
	and forest to the south.
river2	light
	%river1
	You are on the bank of a fast flowing river with pasture to the north
	and forest to the south.
rapids	light
	Rapids.
	You are on the bank of some dangerous rapids. Beyond them to the east
	the river goes underground; to the west it continues out of sight, and
	you can hear a thundering as of falling water from that direction. To
	the south can be seen (and smelled!) a fuming swamp, and southeast is a
	small pond.
mfrst	light
	Forest near mountains.
	You are in dense forest at the base of some snow-capped mountains,
	wreathed in clouds. The foothills are so beautiful that you yearn to
	be able to climb them and lie eternally in dew drenched grass, with
	an air of inner peace and total tranquility. You realise, however, that
	this is silly!
cave	light
	Cave.
	This is a cave, wherein once dwelled a hermit in times long passed.
	Above is a huge mountain towering amongst the clouds, and outside
	can be seen a pasture, small cottage and a cemetery in the distance.
	At the east end of the cave is a small opening in the wall.
pond1	light
	Pond in swamp.
	This is a small, shallow freshwater pond, fed by a small brook joining it
	to the river. It is too shallow to swim, and there are no edible fish
	living in it. Northwest are rapids, but everywhere else is swamp.
nhill1	light
	Foothills.
	You are in the foothills, such as they are, to a tall mountain.
	To the south is an east-west road, and to the north more small hillocks.
	Westwards lies a forest, but passage east is impossible because of
	a huge stone wall which blocks the way, built to keep the denizens of
	The Land away from the surrounding area...
nhill2	light
	%nhill1
	You are in some higher foothills of the mountains, but the way north
	and east is blocked by a huge wall. More foothills are downwards to
	the south, and to the west is forest. In the distance can be seen a
	small, thatched cottage, and some wide, open, pastures.
shill1	light
	%nhill1
	These are some foothills to the tall mountains which tower above you
	to the east. Travel in that direction is impossible because of a tall
	stone wall, built by the locals when they learned of the creatures
	dwelling within The Land... To the north runs an east-west road, and
	to the west is forest. The hills rise slowly to the south.
shill2	light
	%nhill1
	This is a small hillock atop a cave. To the north the hill slopes
	downwards, but to the east and south curves a stone wall which is
	impossible to scale. Below can be seen a stream cascading over another
	cliff further west, and beyond that is the sea.
lounge	light
	Lounge.
	This is the lounge. Around you are some pieces of elegant troll-hide
	furniture, although all the portable ones have long been stolen so
	there's no point in getting any... Ahead of you to the south is the
	dining area, and to the west is the hall. An archway to the east leads
	to the study.
dining	light
	Dining area.
	You are standing in the dining area of a long narrow room. To the north
	is the lounge, to the west is a serving hatch which, you surmise, leads
	to the kitchen (although it's too small to climb through). To the south
	are some french windows which open out over a pasture.
kitche	light
	Kitchen.
	Around you is all the usual paraphernalia that can found in a kitchen,
	although it is firmly fixed down so you can't take any of it away.
	The pantry is to the northwest, and a doorway to the hall is to the
	north. East is a small serving hatch through which you can see, if not
	move to, the dining room.
hall	light
	Hall.
	You are standing in an oddly shaped hall. To the south is a doorway,
	the east is an archway, and some dark forbidding stairs lead upwards
	to the southeast. Immediately to the west is a fitted wardrobe, and
	some eerie, granite steps to the southwest lead downwards to the cellar.
study	light
	Study.
	This is the old study used by the gravedigger who once owned this
	cottage, where he read up his craft. It is decorated in sombre colours,
	and the windows are small and dirty. On the south wall is a large
	bookcase reaching up to the ceiling, made of an enchanted oak.
ssteps
	Secret steps.
	These are some secret steps leading downwards through a false wall to
	the underworld. At the bottom, to the south, is darkness; at the top,
	to the north, stands a large bookcase, acting as a doorway between here
	and a study.
zroom
	Zombie room.
	This is a small room at the bottom of a short flight of steps leading
	up to the north. The walls are damp, and covered in fungal stains.
	To the south is a narrow passage leading downwards.
downps
	Narrow passage.
	This is a small passage leading downwards to the south. To the north
	is a small room, and at the other end a door inscribed with strange
	runes.
sorcrm	light	silent
	Sorcerer's room.
	You look around you in disbelief at the exotic room which you have
	discovered. It seems to be a room used by some sorcerer, wherein he
	bound his spells and worked his magic. The room is lit by an
	illusory red light, and many of the strange objects you see defy
	description. To the north is a door inscribed with strange runic
	symbols, but there is no other exit.
stairs	light
	Halfway up the stairs.
	You are sitting on a step halfway up the stairs, a ghostly voice
	recites a poem by A. A. Milne to itself. Further up you can make out
	a landing, downwards you can see a hallway.
landin	light
	Upstairs landing.
	You are standing on the upstairs landing. There are doorways in most
	directions, the stairs lead downwards and to the northwest.
bathrm	light	small
	Bathroom.
	The bathroom contains a toilet and a handbasin, and on the wall is a
	shelf with "MEDICINES" written on it. The bath was removed long ago,
	but the toilet and handbasin still look usable. The only exit is to the
	east.
cupd1	light	small
	Airing cupboard.
	This is a small cupboard, most of which is filled with a hot water
	tank. The rest of the cupboard is filled with shelving.
bdrm01	light
	Large bedroom.
	You are standing in a large bedroom. To the south is a window out of
	which, you can see a pleasant field with a stream flowing swiftly at
	the bottom of it. There is a doorway to the north.
bdrm02	light
	Main bedroom.
	This is the main bedroom. There is a window to the north from which
	you can see the road that runs past the front of the cottage. The way out
	is south, onto the landing.
bdrm03	light
	Small bedroom.
	The room appears to have been used as a nursery at some time as the
	walls are covered with pictures of elves and gnomes all smiling
	happily. There is a fitted cupboard to the southwest and the way out
	is to the northwest.
cupd2	small	light
	Fitted cupboard.
	The cupboard appears to be bereft of any shelving, there are scratches
	on the wall but there is nothing here which can explain them.
wrdbe	light	small
	Fitted wardrobe.
	You are inside the fitted wardrobe. The only apparent exit is to the
	east, into a hallway.
pantry	small
	Pantry.
	You are standing in the pantry. Around you are some marble slabs
	and shelves which are badly damaged and not worth anything, but
	which have obviously once held mouthwatering delicacies of rare
	and ancient types.
hut	light
	Woodsman's hut.
	The hut is obviously the home of a woodsman. There are various pieces
	of rude wooden furniture scattered about. On the walls are stuffed
	fish and birds, they appear old and are fixed firmly to the wall as
	if the owner has treasured them for a long time.
maze1	light	nolook
	You are lost in a misty graveyard.
maze2	light	nolook
	%maze1
maze3	light	nolook
	%maze1
maze4	light	nolook
	%maze1
maze5	light	nolook
	%maze1
maze6	light	nolook
	%maze1
maze7	light	nolook
	%maze1
maze8	light	nolook
	%maze1
maze9	light	nolook
	%maze1
maze10	light	nolook
	%maze1
maze25	light	nolook
	You are standing in front of a large tombstone.
uswamp	light	death	sanctuary
	Bottom of swamp.
	Isn't it short of air here, beneath all that swamp?
swamp1	light	hideaway	sanctuary	nolook	dmove	uswamp
	You are waylaid in a treacherous swamp.
swamp2	light	hideaway	sanctuary	nolook	dmove	uswamp
	%swamp1
swamp3	light	hideaway	sanctuary	nolook	dmove	uswamp
	%swamp1
swamp4	light	hideaway	sanctuary	nolook	dmove	uswamp
	%swamp1
swamp5	light	hideaway	sanctuary	nolook	dmove	uswamp
	%swamp1
swamp6	light	hideaway	sanctuary	nolook	dmove	uswamp
	%swamp1
swamp8	light	hideaway	sanctuary	nolook	dmove	uswamp
	%swamp1
swamp9	light	hideaway	sanctuary	nolook	dmove	uswamp
	%swamp1
swampa	light	hideaway	sanctuary	nolook	dmove	uswamp
	%swamp1
swampb	light	hideaway	sanctuary	nolook	dmove	uswamp
	%swamp1
swampc	light	hideaway	sanctuary	nolook	dmove	uswamp
	%swamp1
swampd	light	hideaway	sanctuary	nolook	dmove	uswamp
	%swamp1
swamp7	light	nolook
	You are in a drier part of the swamp.
ydead3	light	death
	The volatile marsh gases ignite from your light and in an instant you
	are a charred corpse which is sucked unmercifully into the deep.
beach	light	nolook
	Rocky Beach.
	You are standing on a rocky beach. Above you is a mighty cliff which
	extends out to the sea on either side of you, thus forming an enclosed
	cove. Behind you is a forbidding tunnel, and to the south a mighty
	waterfall smashes into the rocks in another part of the beach. Out to
	the west, in the sea, can be seen a wrecked galleon, trapped on some
	vicious rocks.
beach2	light	nolook
	Bottom of waterfall.
	You are stood on a sandy part of a beach, at the bottom of a
	thundering waterfall which smashes into the rocks from the cliff
	above. To the north is a rockier part of the beach, but otherwise
	the area is cut off by the sea apart from some slippery rocks to the
	south. To the west, in the sea, can be seen the wreckage of a
	galleon, torn against some vicious rocks.
bch1	light
bch2	light
srock1	light	hideaway	dmove	beach2	nolook
	Slippery rocks.
	You are delicately attempting to cross some slippery rocks. To the
	west can be seen a wrecked galleon over the sea, to the north a beach,
	and in all other directions more rocks.
srock2	light	hideaway	dmove	inlet	nolook
	%srock1
	You are delicately attempting to cross some slippery rocks. To the west
	can be seen a wrecked galleon, and in all directions are more rocks.
srock3	light	hideaway	dmove	inlet	nolook
	%srock1
	You are delicately attempting to cross some slippery rocks. To the
	west can be seen a galleon wrecked on some vicious rocks out at sea,
	but all around you are slippery rocks.
inlet	light
	Concealed inlet.
	This is a small inlet from the sea, concealed from view by some
	slippery rocks to the northwest. Out at sea to the west can be seen
	the wreckage of a galleon, and above you towers a mighty cliff. There
	is a bird's nest above, the route to which looks climbable.
nest	light
	Eagle's nest.
	This is the nest of an eagle, stuck firmly to the cliff overlooking the
	sea. Out at sea can be seen a ship on some vicious rocks, and there
	is a strong current whirling around except to the north from west of
	the inlet. The cliff above here is unclimbable.
sea1	light	sanctuary	nolook	dmove	beach
	Sea.
	You are out at sea. To the east is a beach, further out to the west
	a galleon wrecked on some vicious rocks.
sea2	light	sanctuary	nolook	dmove	beach2
	%sea1
	You are out at sea, midway between a beach to the east, some slippery
	rocks to the southeast, and a wrecked galleon to the west.
sea3	light	sanctuary	nolook	dmove	beach
	%sea1
	You are out at sea. To the east and west are rough waters, but northern
	and southern directions look safe enough to take.
sea4	light	sanctuary	nolook	dmove	beach2
	%sea1
	You are out at sea, midway between a beach to the east, some slippery
	rocks to the southeast, and a wrecked galleon to the west.
sea5	light	sanctuary	nolook	dmove	inlet
	%sea1
	You are out at sea, to the west of an inlet and to the southwest of
	some slippery rocks. The waters all around you are rough, but northwards
	and westwards is calm enough to sail.
sea6	light	sanctuary	nolook	dmove	vrocks
	%sea1
	You are out at sea near some vicious rocks to the west, upon which is
	wrecked a galleon. In the distance to the east can be seen a mighty
	cliff and a waterfall, and to the south of that some slippery rocks.
sea7	light	sanctuary	nolook	dmove	vrocks
	%sea1
	You are out to sea, to the southwest of some vicious rocks upon which
	is wrecked a galleon.
sea8	light	sanctuary	nolook	dmove	vrocks
	%sea1
	You are out on the high seas. Far to the north can be seen an island,
	and far to the east a wrecked ship.
sea9	light	sanctuary	nolook	dmove	vrocks
	%sea1
	You are on the high seas, far to the south of an island. the mast of a
	wrecked ship can be seen on the south-eastern horizon.
sea10	light	sanctuary	nolook	dmove	slope1
	Small bay.
	You are in a small bay, skirted by strong currents. To the north is
	a steep slope, which the swirling flows about you make the only safe
	place to land. The island is a huge rock, topped by a flat plateau
	upon which is a huge circle of weatherbeaten stones.
sea11	light	sanctuary	nolook	dmove	jetty
	%sea1
	You are out at sea, next to the coastline. To the west, the sea looks
	still sailable, but northwards it gets rough. Eastwards is a jetty,
	which juts out into the waves from a beach beyond. To the south, the
	relative tranquility of these coastal waters continues.
sea12	light	sanctuary	nolook	dmove	beach3
	%sea1
	You are at sea, close to the coastline to the east. Northwards and
	northwestwards, the sea looks safe enough to navigate, and to the
	southwest there is a channel around a headland protruding from the
	coast. Elsewhere, however, it is rough and sailing there would probably
	deposit you in Davy Jones's locker...
sea13	light	sanctuary	nolook	dmove	beach3
	%sea1
	You are out to sea, away from the coastline. All around, except in the
	southerly and easterly directions, the water is very rough, and it would
	take a much larger craft than yours to travel there safely. Far beyond a
	headland to the south you can see a ship wrecked on some vicious rocks,
	but there is nothing but tempestuous sea beyond the cliff to the north.
sea14	light	sanctuary	nolook	dmove	beach3
	%sea1
	You are in a narrow channel of calm water, sailing around a headland
	with rough seas swirling about it, its granite rocks unfortunately
	precluding any attempt at landing. Northwards is a small bay with
	a jetty to its east; southwards is a larger expanse of navigable
	water.
sea15	light	sanctuary	nolook	dmove	inlet
	%sea1
	You are out at sea, to the south of some vicious rocks upon which lies
	a wrecked galleon. Some way to the east can be seen an inlet at the foot
	of a tall cliff, and south, through strong currents on either side, is
	a small island upon which has been built a large archway.
sea16	light	sanctuary	nolook	dmove	inlet
	%sea1
	You are sailing north of a small island in the middle of rough seas.
	The only calm waters lie further north, where in the distance can be
	seen a galleon, wrecked on some vicious rocks.
woe1	light
	North part of Isle of Woe.
	You are standing on a small island, way out to sea. The waters are
	relatively calm, but too far in any direction save north and they
	become dangerous. A large, ancient archway straddles the island, its
	faces well eroded over many thousands of years. To reach the southern
	part of the island you would have to pass through it.
woe2	light
	South part of Isle of Woe.
	You find youself stood in the southern half of a small, windswept
	island, separated from the northern half by a large archway which
	stands from shore to shore. The seas around here sweep swiftly
	northwards, too, but are not dangerous close to the island.
fslop1	light
	Forest on steep slope.
	You are in dense forest, sloping from the south downwards to the north.
fslop2	light
	%fslop1
	You are in dense forest, sloping from the south downwards to the north.
	To the southeast are the foothills of an enormous mountain.
fslop3	light
	%fslop2
	You are in dense forest, sloping from the south downwards to the north.
	To the west can be heard the roar of the sea, as it crashes into the
	cliffs beyond the trees.
sdale	light
	South dale.
	This is a peaceful dale, nestled at the base of a huge afforested
	escarpment which slopes steeply away to the south. Northwards is
	another forest, and eastwards the overgrown grounds of a mausoleum,
	dwarfed by an enormous mountain which stands high above. The dale
	curves away to the northwest, and westwards is a dangerous cliff.
ogrnds	light
	Overgrown grounds of mausoleum.
	This once well-tended garden has now, sadly, fallen into a state of
	neglect. Stood within, its doorway to the southeast, is a cold,
	bemossed mausoleum. The scene is dominated by a huge cliff to the
	east, at the base of an awe-inspiring mountain which climbs away
	into the clouds, its foothills sweeping down into a steep escarpment
	covered in forest to the south. North is more forest, and west a dale.
	To the northeast there looks to be a railway cutting.
mosolm
	Mausoleum.
	You are stood inside a piece of history, a mausoleum which is far more
	ancient than its weatherbeaten exterior would indicate. Within the
	circular walls are the tombs of many, their names and heraldic designs
	carved into the stones in a language which was dead before Atlantis
	sank. The easiest exit from this eerie window on the past is to the
	northwest. On the floor, however, is carved an inscription in an
	archaic predecessor of your own language, which is readable. The floor
	and ceiling do not have entrances, but the tombs seem to.
ntomb
	North tomb.
	This is the north tomb of the mausoleum, but the bones of the dead
	have long since been reduced to dust by Time. The walls are close
	together, and there is no evidence of there having been a coffin
	within. The exit is to the south.
wtomb
	West tomb.
	This side-room is the west tomb of the mausoleum. An enormous
	sarcophagus is lain against the back wall, and the way out is to the
	east, leading back into the mausoleum entrance hall.
stomb
	South tomb.
	This small chamber is the southern tomb of the mausoleum, which has
	not been used for burial purposes. The exit is to the north, and the
	walls are curiously uninteresting.
swtomb
	Southwest tomb.
	This tomb is to the southwest of the mausoleum, and is quite richly
	decorated. The walls are stained a regal purple, and the floor is a
	mosaic of intricate design. The whole room has an eastern aura, and
	bears many gilt symbols in a language you cannot recognise inlaid
	upon the door.
etomb
	East tomb.
	This room consists the eastern tomb of the mausoleum, and is the
	oldest part of the structure. Strange cobwebs adorn the far wall,
	and the light casts dancing shadows on the roof which seem to come to
	life in this relic of prehistory. The only exit is to the west.
setomb
	Southeast tomb.
	This is the southeastern tomb of the mausoleum, and has not been used
	for burial purposes. The unplastered walls and uneven floor give a
	sense of starkness which makes the uneasy mind wary, lest some
	uncanny spirit has made the deathly room its abode.
dcliff	light
	Dangerous cliff.
	You are stood by the edge of a dangerous, partly-forested cliff,
	which slopes downwards to the north. To the east and south, the forest
	becomes thicker, and to the northeast the slope levels out onto a dale.
	The crumbling eroded western edge of the cliff looks so liable to
	collapse that no-one in their right mind would risk certain death by
	leaping off.
scrubs	light
	Scrub slope.
	This is a gentle slope down westwards to a beach, covered in scrubs
	and small bushes. To the south, the slope becomes much steeper, and
	rises into a huge escarpment high above. Eastwards is a dale, and
	northwards runs an east-west section of railway line.
wdale	light
	West dale.
	This is a pleasant dale, hugging the slopes of a huge forest-covered
	escarpment which rises to the south. East is more forest, but the
	dale curves southeastwards behind it. West is a slope of scrubland,
	which rolls down to the sea beyond. North is a railway line, which
	runs from east to west, standard gauge.
forist	light
	%nfrst1
	You are stood in a dense forest, with a railway line to the north
	and a pleasant dale to the south and west.
cuttin	light
	Railway cutting.
	You are stood on a shallow mound, which has been cut through by a
	now rusting railway line, in an east-west direction to the north. To
	the south is a mausoleum in overgrown grounds, the remnants of a
	surrounding fence no longer preventing entry. East and west are forests,
	and southwest is a dale at the bottom of a long, steep slope.
efrst1	light
	Forest at base of cliff.
	The forest in which you stand is nestled at the base of a frighteningly
	tall mountain which rises off in an unclimbable cliff to the east.
	From inside it, to the north, appears to run a railway line, which
	cuts through a shallow mound to the west. South stands a cold, grey
	mausoleum in overgrown grounds, protected ineffectually by the remains
	of a fence which long since rotted away to virtually nothing.
emine	light
	Entrance to mine.
	This is the entrance to an underground tin mine, beneath a huge
	cliff. Outside is to the west, and down to the east runs a main
	passage into the mine proper. Both directions is a railway track,
	overgrown enough to show it hasn't been used for many a year.
main1	light
	Main passage.
	This is the main passage in the tin mine, running east-west. Light
	comes from the west end, whereas the east delves deeper underground.
	The length of the passage there runs a rusted railway track.
main2	light
	%main1
	This is the junction on the main passage in the mine. To the west,
	whence comes light, the passage rises. Also in this direction runs
	a railway track, although it stops where you are now standing. To
	the north is a major shaft, and upwards to the east are some roughly
	hewn but well-worn steps. The passage continues to the southeast. The
	floor of this room seems to be slightly wet.
platfm
	Platform.
	This is a sort of landing at the top of some steps which lead
	down to the west. To the east is a major shaft, which runs upwards,
	and to the north is a makeshift shed. The platform looks well used.
shed
	Shed.
	This is a decrepit but nevertheless rather sturdy shed, used by the
	tin-miners in the old days to store their equipment. The way out is
	to the south, onto a platform at the top of a staircase.
valvrm
	Valve on staircase.
	You are halfway up (or down!) a staircase carved into the rock,
	although it is well used. Fixed solidly into the wall is a rusted
	wheel valve-release, of the sort used in large plumbing work. In
	contrast to the stairs, it looks hardly used at all...
shaft1	dmove	minor1
	Vertical shaft.
	This is a vertical shaft, quite long, but easy to traverse because
	of the iron rungs hammered into its sides. Such shafts were used long
	ago by the tin-miners to reach the faces. At the top end, to the
	south, is a main passage. Similarily, there is a minor passage at the
	bottom, to the east.
shaft2	dmove	platfm
	%shaft1
	This is a vertical shaft, which you find yourself able to climb
	because of the heavy iron rungs forced deep into the rock. At the
	bottom end, to the west, is a main passage; at the top, however,
	there is only a minor passage, to the north.
main3
	%main1
	This is a three-way junction in the main passage. Exits are upwards
	to the northwest, downwards to the southwest, or to the east.
main4
	%main1
	You are walking down a main passage in the tin mine. To the east is
	a vertical shaft, whereas the passage turns downwards to the south
	and upwards to the west.
shaft3	dmove	minor7
	%shaft1
	This is a vertical shaft leading deep underground. At the top end, to
	the west, is a main passageway; at the bottom end, to the south,
	there is a minor one. The shaft is climbable because of heavy
	iron rungs biting into the sides, although the walls are a bit damp.
main5
	%main1
	This is a main passage in the tin mine, running up to the northeast
	and curving down to the south. There is a fair amount of rubble
	around, as though there has been a cave-in nearby at some time in
	the past.
main7
	%main1
	This is a north-south main passage, which although clear at the
	north end, runs into a pile of rubble to the south. It is plain that
	the pit-props have given way some time, and the way through is almost
	impossible. You might be able to travel south, however, if you were
	to drop everything you're carrying...
dpass1
	Dangerous passage.
	This is a dangerous passage, the description of which mortals can't
	normally read! Try n or ne.
dpass2
	%dpass1
	This is a dangerous passage, the description of which mortals can't
	normally read! Try sw, s, se or ne.
dpass3
	%dpass1
	This is a dangerous passage, the description of which mortals can't
	normally read! Try n, sw or se.
dpass4
	%dpass1
	This is a dangerous passage, the description of which mortals can't
	normally read! Try nw, w or sw.
dpass5
	%dpass1
	This is a dangerous passage, the description of which mortals can't
	normally read! Try n or se.
dpass6
	%dpass1
	This is a dangerous passage, the description of which mortals can't
	normally read! Try nw or ne.
sectn
	Section of main passage.
	This is a remaining section of the main passage, but I couldn't
	care less because mortals still can't read it! Try e or nw.
main6
	%main1
	You find yourself in a main tunnel, which although clear at the
	north end, runs into a pile of rubble to the south. You could
	probably negotiate the cave-in if you were to drop everthing, but
	you won't be able to see if you do...
minor1
	Minor passage.
	This is a minor passage, at the base of a shaft to the west. It
	continues to the east, towards the tin face. There is a narrow
	crack to the southwest, but you'd have to drop everything to be
	able to pass through.
minor2
	%minor1
	You are walking along a narrow passage, which splits three ways.
	To the west, it continues upwards; to the south, it bends away
	downwards; to the east, it meets the face, from where tin used
	to be mined using picks.
face1
	Face.
	This is one of the faces upon which work was proceeding when the
	mine closed down. The only way out is to the west, to the previous
	face, now a minor passage.
minor3
	%minor1
	This minor passage runs upwards to the north, and downwards into a
	shaft to the south. It doesn't look like is has been used very often.
shaft4	dmove	tightp
	%shaft1
	This vertical shaft is exceedingly long, but ascent and descent is
	facilitated by heavy iron rungs set into the walls. At the top end,
	to the north, is a minor passage. At the bottom, to the south, is
	a tight passage, which looks hardly used.
tightp	small
	Tight passage.
	This is a very small and tight passage, and it is something of an
	effort to enter although no-one need drop anything to do so. To
	the south is a hardly-worked tin face; indeed, it looks like work
	was in progress to widen the tunnel when the mine closed. To the
	east is a crack, leading into the rock.
face4
	%face1
	This is one of the tin faces, where in years gone by the tin miners
	would cut away to reach the ore. The only way out is to the north
	onto a tight passage.
doomrm	light
	Doom room.
	As soon as you enter, a section of floor gives way and you find
	yourself falling into a pit. The finely-balanced rock slides
	back above your head, and you find yourself stuck.
crrm	small
	Crack room.
	Hello wizard, guess what mortals can't see without help? Try ne or w.
edwrlm
	Entrance to dwarf realm.
	You find yourself crouched in a low passage, obviously the work of
	dwarfs, with a crack in the rock to the west and an ornamented
	archway to the southeast. You realise that this must be the entrance to
	the fabulous dwarf realm, about which there are many terrible legends.
minor5
	%minor1
	Where you are now is a minor passage at the top of a vertical shaft to
	the south. Eastwards, the passage continues, and to the north is a
	side passage, which seems to have been started in error, and abandoned.
minor6
	%minor1
	This is a minor passage, leading from the west to a tin face to the
	east. South, there is a smooth-walled, vertical ventilator duct, or so
	it appears. It looks particularily dangerous, however, and smells of
	charcoal.
face2
	%face1
	This is a tin face, moderately used. The exit is to the west into a
	minor passage.
sidpsg
	Side passage.
	This is the beginnings of a minor passage, but upon which work ceased
	early because of the hardness of the rock. The passage proper is to
	the south.
minor7
	%minor1
	This is another minor passage in the tin mine. It starts at the base of
	a shaft to the north, and continues to the south.
minor8
	%minor1
	This minor passage continues to the north, but bends onto a face to
	the east. There is one of the common roof collapses to the south,
	which you could probably traverse if you weren't carrying anything.
face3
	%face1
	This is a frequently-used tin face, by the look of things, since it
	seems to have a high grade of tin, although most of it has now been
	mined, of course... The way out is to the west, onto a minor passage.
peril1
	Perilous passage.
	Hi wizards! Try n or sw.
peril2
	%peril1
	Hi wizards! Try e or ne.
peril3
	%peril1
	Hi wizards! Try nw or sw.
peril4
	%peril1
	Hi wizards! Try nw or s.
peril5
	%peril1
	Hi wizards! Try n or s.
ledge1	light
	Ledge.
	You are stood on a ledge overlooking a fantastic sight. By light
	coming from what seems to be a hole high above you, you witness an
	incredible view of the fabled dwarf realm of legend. There is no way
	to get down from here, although far to the southwest there seems to be
	such an entrance. The ledge continues to the east.
ledge2	light
	%ledge1
	You are stood on the ledge, high above the dwarf realm. Although
	the view is awe-inspiring, you are careful to keep your footing
	lest you fall the many hundreds of feet and kill yourself below. The
	ledge continues to the east and west.
boledg
ledge3	light
	%ledge1
	This is the easternmost end of the ledge, which is a bit wider than
	the rest of it. Below you you can see a pasture, and some forests,
	but the scene is stolen by a dazzling dwarfen citadel in the centre
	of the cave below, which catches the mysterious light from above and
	spreads it out in a glorious cascade of sparkling colours.
bldg	light	nolook
	Bottom of ledge.
	You are stood at the bottom of the northern wall of this strange
	subterrainean domain. High above you can be seen a narrow ledge, but
	there are no means by which you can climb there from here. To the
	south is a pasture, now lying fallow.
dwpst1	light
	Dwarfen pasture.
	You are strolling across a pasture, used by the dwarfs for their
	crops, although now it is overgrown because it is the fallow year.
	To the north is the bottom of the northern wall, high up which is a
	ledge. East is a forest, and south the entrance to the dominating
	citadel.
befcit	light
	Before citadel.
	You are stood before a huge marble-covered citadel, the entrance
	to which is to the east. It is inset with coloured stones and
	catches the sun from high above to create a glorious rainbow effect.
	North and south are pastures, and to the west are steps up to a
	shelf in the rock, and an archway.
dwpst2	light
	%dwpst1
	This is a pasture to the south of the entrance to the citadel,
	the as yet unripe wheat swaying to and fro' to unseen winds. To the
	south and east are forests of oak.
panora	light
	Panoramic view.
	You are stood on a shelf in the rock, with a grand archway through
	into a passage to the northwest. This, however, is nothing compared
	to the spectacular sight to the east. You see that this is a cavern,
	light coming in by what seems to be a hole in the roof high above.
	Steps lead down to the base of a huge citadel, surrounded by a
	wall with forests beyond. To the northeast and southeast are two
	pastures, and from somewhere can be heard a running spring. The
	light reflecting from the citadel's marbled walls is so breathtaking
	you feel quite in awe.
ufrst1	light
	Underground forest.
	You are stood in a pleasant oak forest, with a pasture to the west.
	The forest continues to the southeast, but to the north is the cavern
	wall and to the south the wall of the citadel.
ufrst2	light
	%ufrst1
	You are walking through an oak forest, with pasture to the west.
	North is the wall of the citadel, and south is the edge of the
	cave.
ufrst3	light
	%ufrst1
	This is a very agreeable oak forest through which you find yourself
	walking. To the north is a wheatfield, and to the southeast can be
	heard a spring.
spring	light
	Spring.
	You are stood in a leafy part of the forest. From the cave wall
	comes forth a spring, which tumbles into a little pool and seeps away
	again into the earth. All around is more wall, for this is a large
	crack, save to the northwest where the forest continues.
topcit	light
	Top of citadel.
	This is the top of the citadel, from where you can see all the
	surrounding cave. Directly above you can be seen a hole, high up in
	the mountain, and it occurs to you that this citadel was so placed
	as to catch the light precisely and create the wondrous effects
	visible elsewhere in the cavern. There is a gateway to the east.
ufrst5	light
	%ufrst1
	This is the forest at the back of the citadel. There is the cave
	wall to the east, but the forest continues northwest and southwest.
entrnc
	Entrance to citadel.
	You are stood at the entrance to the dwarfen citadel, at the top of
	some steps which run downwards to the east. West, a gateway provides
	the only other exit from the room. The walls are decorated in curious
	stones and wierd etchings, but none are removable or readable.
dwstep
	Dwarf steps.
	You are using some narrow, closely-spaced stairs, which descend in a
	straight line from a room to the west to a doorway to the east. At the
	top of the steps are strange decorations, presumably put there to
	ward off evil presences, such as yours...
dwhall
	Dwarfen hall.
	The room in which you stand is impressive in size, even by non-dwarf
	standards. High above is a red brick ceiling, and the floor is
	decorated by a colourful, if crudely-made, mosaic. There are low
	passages leading off to the north and east, and a higher passage to
	the south (probably so long weapons don't scratch the roof). West is
	a doorway, which looks well-used.
lowps1
	Low passage.
	You are walking down a low, well-trodden passage. To the north, the
	passage continues, and to the south it opens out into a large hall.
	East is what looks like a kitchen, and to the west is a doorway.
lowps2
	%lowps1
	You are stood in a low, dwarfen passage, which runs from the south,
	turns to the east, and continues. There is an opening on the north
	wall into a room, and to the west is a doorway.
lowps3
	%lowps1
	This is a low, east-west passage. At the west end, it continues on
	into the dark, but at the east end it opens up onto a comparatively
	large room. To the northeast is an opening, from which issues a
	peculiar odour.
dwfood
	Food store.
	This is the room the dwarfs who live here use to store their food
	supplies. It is packed full of assorted vittles and foodstuffs, most
	of which are in too small quantities for you to bother with. The only
	way out is through a doorway to the east.
dwstre
	Dwarf store.
	Herein, the dwarfs keep most of their equipment and tools. The walls
	are hung with assorted spades, clothes, planks of wood and the like,
	but most are too small for you to use. The only exit is a doorway to
	the east.
dwroom
	Dwarf room.
	This is a room which seems to have been recently constructed by the
	dwarfs who inhabit this realm, for at the moment it has no furnishings
	or even a door. The only way out is via an opening to the south which
	leads onto the bend of a low passage.
dwbog	small
	Dwarf lavatory.
	This is the small room the dwarfs use to excrete their waste bodily
	products. Although there is no door (the exit is an opening to the
	southwest), privacy is maintained by the room being on a slight
	upward slant, out of the line of sight from the passage outside.
	Understandably, being such a small room, there is a pungent odour here.
dwcant
	Canteen.
	This is the room where the dwarfs partake of their meals. It is quite
	large, and has a long table running down the middle, bolted to the
	ground. There are two low passages leaving the room; one to the west,
	and one to the south. To the southwest is a doorway, and there are no
	other exits. The walls are painted in pictures of grassy pastures.
dwktch
	Dwarf kitchen.
	You are stood in the dwarf kitchen, quite large and full of kitchen-
	like utensils which are regretably too small to be of use to you. There
	is a doorway to the northeast, with food stains on the floor near it,
	and an opening onto a low passage to the west. North is a pit in which
	refuse is thrown to decompose away.
dwpit	small
	Refuse pit.
	This evil-smelling room is where the dwarfs toss their rubbish, from
	the kitchen. All around are masses of decomposing foodstuffs, in
	various states of decay, and filty, broken articles not even the
	previous owners would be able to recognise. The only way out is via
	a short climb to the south.
lowps4
	%lowps1
	This is a low passage, leading from what appears to be a canteen to
	the north, to a doorway at the southern end.
lowps5
	%lowps1
	You are striding down a low passage, which forms a sort of T-junction.
	To the west, it leads into a large hall, and to the east it opens up
	into a room, whereas south, it carries on into the dark.
dwrm1
	Dwarf room.
	This is a general-purpose room, used by the dwarfs for some of their
	normal everyday activities. Strewn about it in a seemingly random
	fashion, yet firmly fixed to the floor, are various items of furniture
	and the like. There is a doorway to the north, and a low passage leading
	off to the west.
guard1
	Dwarf guard room.
	You are stood in a guard room built specifically to prevent access,
	presumably to the doorway which is to the south. There are crimson
	stains on the floor which have been unsuccessfully attempted to be
	removed. North is an opening onto a large hall, and southeast is
	another room.
guard2
	%guard1
	This is the inner guard room. The wall is decorated in battle scenes,
	all of which end in the dwarfs winning. North is a doorway, and south a
	low passage. To the west is a weapon store, which it appears the room
	is primarily designed to guard.
wpnstr
	Weapon store.
	All about you is the most horrifying assortment of weapons you care to
	envisage. Although they are too small for you to use in the main, the
	various iron maidens, thumbscrews and racks also present show that the
	dwarfs also use the room for torturing prisoners and each other. The
	only exit is to the east, into a guard room.
lowps7
	%lowps1
	You are stood in a low passage connecting two guard rooms, one to the
	north and one to the south. There is a doorway to the west which is
	of polished wood, and seems to be to somewhere very important.
guard3
	%guard1
	You are in a guard room, bedecked in fine war trophies, most of which
	are out of reach on the surprisingly high walls. The room is normally
	reached by a low passage to the north, but to the south is a doorway
	of very old oak, shined and polished to perfection. Obviously, it hides
	something regarded with importance.
minrm
	Ministerial room.
	This is the dwarfen parliament room, where the king's ministers debate
	the issues of the dwarfen realm. It is richly fashioned with oak
	fittings, designed to hold, say, ten or so dwarfs excluding the king
	himself. There is a doorway to the east, and a guard room to the south.
guard4
	%guard1
	This is the home of the king's guard, special, hand-picked troops of
	the highest order, pledged to lay their lives down in order to save that
	of their regal master. To the north is a room which seems to indicate
	use as a debating forum of some kind, and from it through this room runs
	a red fitted carpet to a doorway in the south wall. The doorway itself
	is of heavy oak, and although elegantly finished seems to be built more
	with strength in mind than ornamentation.
kingrm
	Throne room.
	This is the throne room, the very seat of power in the dwarfen realm.
	It is luxuriously carpeted, and the walls are painted gold. It is here
	that the dwarfen king holds audiences and receives oaths of fealty. The
	king's study is to the east, and southwest lies the royal bedroom. A
	doorway in the north wall is the only other exit.
kqdorm
	Royal bedroom.
	It is here that the dwarfen king and queen sleep. The room is furnished
	with the normal bedroom paraphenalia, all dwarf-sized however so not
	much good for you. The walls are a regal purple, and the floor is of
	a soft, mossy material. The only exit is to the throne room, northeast.
kingst
	King's study.
	You are stood in the room the dwarfen king uses for much of his work.
	A hollow cut out into the wall is obviously used for a desk, and it
	is built with comfort and practicality in mind. The throne room is
	easily accessed to the west, and there is a low passage to the south.
	North is a doorway, of exceptionally old oak, well-tended and polished.
lowps8
	%lowps1
	You are in a low passage, which curves from a study to the north to end
	in a doorway to the east.
ktreas
	King's treasure chamber.
	This room is built to house the crown jewels and other assorted
	treasures of the dwarfen realm. It is austere in itself, and the only
	way out is through a doorway to the west.
lowps6
	%lowps1
	You are in a low passage, which heads north to become the central
	leg of a T-junction, and runs south to end in a doorway. East, it
	opens up into a room.
dwrm2
	%dwrm1
	This is a room used by the dwarfs for everyday living, mainly by the
	females and children. There is a doorway to the north, and another
	room to the south. Northwest, there is an opening onto a guard room.
dwrm3
	%dwrm2
	You are stood in a very large room which the dwarfs use to manufacture
	most of their goods. Dotted about all over are dozens of machines of
	varying degrees of complexity, some so strange and old it is doubtful
	that any of the dwarfs even know what they do. There is a thick wooden
	door to the south, apparently for sound-proofing, and a low passage
	leads off to the west.
dwrm4
	%dwrm1
	You look about to find yourself in a room used mainly during the
	evenings and for relaxation. The older dwarfs are the kind you'd expect
	to find here, for it is surprisingly quiet and well furnished. There is
	another room to the north, and a low passage to the east. South you
	observe a doorway.
kdorm
	Children's dormitory.
	This is the room where the young dwarfs sleep. The walls are decorated
	in pictures of bunnies and pussies, and give the room a soft, dreamy
	effect. The parents' dormitory is to the east, and to the north is a
	door.
pdorm
	Married quarters.
	You are stood in the room in which live the married dwarfs. The various
	sub-rooms are discretely curtained off from each other, although the
	curtains are of course firmly fixed down to prevent their being stolen.
	The dormitory of their young is to the west, and northwards is a low
	passage.
lowps9
	%lowps1
	You are standing in a low passage, with three exits. West, the passage
	leads into a room; south it opens into a dormitory; north, it ends in
	a doorway.
odorm
	Officers' dormitory.
	This rather smart room is used as living quarters for officers and other
	high-ranking dwarfs. Its walls are painted mainly in portraits of dwarfs
	which all seem to look the same, due to their large beards. To the south
	is a doorway, and to the north the large dormitory of the lower dwarfs.
dorm
	Dormitory.
	This is a large room, wherein sleep most of the unmarried dwarfs. It is
	full of little hammocks upon which the dwarfs rest, sturdily fixed to
	the wall to prevent their theft. To the south is the more classy
	Officers' dormitory, and to the north is a heavy doorway, built to be
	sound-proof.
rail4	light
	Railway track.
	You are stood on a section of rusted railway line, which runs out
	from a tin mine in the base of a huge cliff to the east. Northwards
	is a paddock where the pit ponies used to be kept, and south east
	forest. Southwest is a mound, which the track cuts through as it
	continues to the west.
rail3	light
	%rail4
	You are stood on a section of east-west railway line, which continues
	in both directions. To the south is a mound through which the track
	is cutting, and to the north are a dale, and a paddock of some kind.
rail2	light
	%rail4
	This is an east-west railway track, running through some very pleasant
	surroundings. To the north and southwest are peaceful dales, and to the
	south lies a drowsy forest. A hillock to the southeast is cut through
	by the track as it heads east towards the base of a mighty cliff.
rail1	light
	%rail4
	This is the last section of a railway line. It continues to the east
	where it cuts through some dales, but to the west it stops at the
	beach. Northwards is a stony slope also leading to the beach, and to
	the southwest is a like slope, covered in scrubs.
stslop	light
	Stony slope.
	This is a slope running down from a dale in the east to a beach in the
	west. North is forest, and to the south is a section of railway line
	which runs east-west.
ndale	light
	North dale.
	You are stood in a quiet dale, at the foot of some gentle hills which
	rise drowsily to the north, their slopes drenched in the emerald colour
	of the trees which grow upon them. To the west the dale tails off into
	a stony slope reaching down to the shore, and east is a paddock of
	some description. To the south, before another forest, runs an east-
	west railway track.
paddck	light
	Paddock.
	This is a paddock, where once were kept the ponies which used to haul
	the heavy skips of tin from the mine down to the jetty on the beach.
	They have long since gone, but the railway line along which they used
	to toil is still intact, to the south. Westwards is a dale, and to
	northeast a ruin of some stone building. Eastwards, travel is impossible
	due to the enormous cliff which rises up into a mountain far into the
	clouds.
ruin	light
	Ruin.
	This conglomeration of stone which lies forlornly in the grass is all
	that is left of the outer buildings belonging to the nearby tinmine,
	before bad times fell upon it. Age and the weather have since reduced
	the once proud structures to moss-covered misshapen arrangements of
	rubble. To the north is a forest, and to the east an enormous cliff at
	the base of a huge, snow-capped mountain. Elsewhere is a pony paddock.
nfrst5	light
	%nfrst1
	You are stood in some dense forest, which slopes down to the south.
nfrst6	light
	%nfrst1
	You are stood in some dense forest, which slopes down to the south.
nfrst7	light
	%nfrst1
	You are stood in some dense forest, which slopes down to the south,
	where stones and masonry indicate once stood buildings, over which the
	forest has now extended.
beach3	light	nolook
	Stony beach.
	The beach upon which you are stood is covered in stones, a legacy of
	the days when mining material would fall from the skips of ore as they
	were loaded aboard merchantmen. To the north, the beach continues, and
	to the west is the sea. East is a slope covered in scrubs, which rises
	up to a dale. On the northern part of the beach can be seen a jetty.
	Southwards, however, a headland with high cliffs cuts off the way.
beach4	light	nolook
	%beach3
	This is a beach covered in stones of irregular size. To the north the
	cliffs rise, forming a cove which cuts off the area, but southwards
	the beach continues. A railway line runs from the east, and to the
	west a jetty forces itself out into the waves. To the southeast and
	northeast, slopes rise up into dales.
shrine	light	small
	Shrine.
	You are inside a small yet sacrosanct shrine. A sense of deep
	respectfulness fills this modest room. The way out, into a pine forest,
	is to the northwest. It is obvious that the shrine was meant to be used
	for quiet meditation, like similar chambers.
osanct	light	small	silent
	Outer sanctum.
	You find yourself in the outer sanctum of some strange, holy temple.
	All about you, the walls seem to be a hazy, formless blackness, but
	there is a visible opening to the north from whence comes an errie,
	golden light.
isanct	light	small	silent
	Inner sanctum.
	This is the inner sanctum of a most reverend shrine. Thousands of
	years it has existed, with only the highest of high priests permitted to
	enter this hallowed room. The walls are a strange, misty black, and
	golden light comes from an indeterminate source high above. An opening
	to the south leads to the outer sanctum, but the bizarre walls may lead
	elsewhere, too...
jetty	light
	Jetty.
	This is a wooden jetty, which forces itself out into the sea. To the
	east is the beach, but otherwise all around is the sea.
hdland	light
	Headland.
	This is a small headland, jutting out of the island in a southeasterly
	direction. All around the peninsula is rough sea, except to the
	northwest, where a thicket is situated, and northwards where is a
	sandy cove.
cove	light
	Cove.
	You are stood in a sandy, windswept cove to the east of the island.
	South is a barren headland, and southwest a thicket. To the north is
	forest, and to the northwest a clearing, near which the indigenous
	birds of the island refuse to fly. Eastwards is the rough sea.
ifrst1	light
	Arcane forest.
	You are stood in the awful hideousness of an arcane forest, its trees
	misshapen collections of charred and splintered branches. All around
	to the west rages the savage sea, and to the north the forest
	continues. Eastwards, it has been cleared where it becomes a steep
	slope.
ifrst2	light
	%ifrst1
	This ancient forest in which you are stood looks to have been laid
	to waste millennia ago, by some immense fire-breathing creation of the
	evil gods. To the west, the relentless bombardment of the sea
	continues, and to the east is a steep slope. South, the forest
	is the same, but northwards it becomes foliated again.
ifrst3	light
	Oak forest.
	This is a forest of oak trees, in the northwest corner of the island.
	To the south the forest has been ravaged by some diabolic evil, and
	to the east is normal forest sloping upwards. West and north, the
	rough sea batters away at the rugged coastline.
ifrst4	light
	Sloping forest.
	This is a sparse forest, which slopes from the south upwards to the
	north. At the south end is a cove, which meets the rough sea that
	is to the east. Southwest is an evil place, where such wildlife as
	inhabits the island does not dare travel. To the west the forest
	clears, and to the north is a clearing, upon which you can see a
	ring of huge stones.
ifrst6	light
	%ifrst4
	This is a forest on a steep hill, leading from an oak forest to the
	west upwards to a clearing containing a huge ring of stones to the
	north. Southwards the trees also end, and to the north the rough
	sea crashes against the island.
ifrst5	light
	Thicket.
	This is a thicket, straddling the island. To the southeast it isolates
	a barren headland, and to the east is a windswept cove. West is
	wilderness which slopes up northwards, and to the north is level
	ground, but over which hangs an aura of intense danger.
slope1	light
	Steep slope.
	This is a steep slope, running upwards to the north. Beyond more
	slopes, at the top of the rock, a huge ring of stones can be seen,
	a scene which dominates the whole island. To the east is a thicket, and
	to the west an arcane forest. Southwards, the slope meets the sea in
	a bay which looks just about calm enough to sail a small craft.
fring	light	nolook
	Fairy ring.
	You are stood in a desolate spot. The only noise is the howling wind
	as it comes off the sea beyond a cove to the southeast. In the
	centre of this wilderness is a fairy ring, a circle etched out by
	toadstools many centuries before. No animals or birds of the island
	will go in the area, although it it large enough for a human to enter.
	North and west are slopes leading upwards to a plateau at the top of the
	rock of an island, and northeast is forest.
slope2	light
	%slope1
	You are stood on a steep slope, leading upwards to the north. At the
	top, there levels out a plateau on the top of the rock which is this
	island. East is forest, south and west more wilderness.
slope3	light
	%slope1
	This is a cleared piece of wilderness which slopes up northeastwards.
	All around is more of the same, except to the west where is a strange
	and arcane forest.
slope4	light
	%slope1
	This is a stretch of wilderness sloping upwards to the east onto a
	plateau surmounted by a druidic ring of stones. North is s forest,
	and west the slope levels out into a forest of oak.
rost	light
	Ring of stones.
	You find yourself overawed by the huge ring of stones which encircle
	this, the highest part of the island rock. As the wind sweeps over from
	the rugged cliffs to the east and north, the whistling is broken only
	by the lonely cries of the ravens which hover above. To the south and
	west are steep slopes downwards. Far, far away in the distance on the
	southeast horizon can be glimpsed the sail of a wrecked ship. In the
	centre of the ring of stones is a large, heavy, bloodstained, slate,
	sacrificial slab. Many people have been killed here.
brost	light
	Beneath ring of stones.
	You are underneath the ring of stones, in a druidic chamber not entered
	these past two thousand years until today. Light comes from the way out,
	which is above. The walls of the chamber are stained red with the blood
	from the sacrifices above. Steps lead down to the southwest.
dtest1	light	nolook
	Steps down.
	As you go down, an axe swings out from above, but with a swish of your
	magic sword you deflect it to one side. The way from here is a
	downward climb, which you won't be able to climb back up, or the way
	you came from the steps to the northeast. The floor is carpeted in a
	heavy mist, so you cannot see your feet.
dtest2	light	nolook
	Niche room.
	You start your descent, and the rocky walls change into clayy earth.
	Suddenly, a clod comes loose from a tricky section, and you fall back.
	With amazing speed you hook out with your sickle and it digs into the
	wall, saving you from falling. You get to the bottom safely. There is
	no exit, only a niche in the wall, to put things into. The floor is
	covered in mist.
dtest3	light	nolook
	Druid room.
	This most ancient of rooms is the old temple of the druids who once
	lived upon this island. It is bare, the druids having taken their
	paraphenalia with them when they fled The Land. Written onto the
	wall in blue daub reads, "With the fork of gold eat the sprig of
	pearls." There is a doorway to the north, and no apparent light
	source although the room is illuminated.
dtreas	light	nolook
	Druidical treasure chamber.
	The room in which you find yourself is the most wonderous you have
	ever glimpsed, its walls impregnated with starstones and the air
	thickly scented with the drowsy aromatic sweetness of mistletoe.
	The way out is via a rectangular hole in the roof.
dead20	light	death
	An unseen strong current suddenly drags hold of your little craft and
	sucks it underwater. You splash about, but eventually drown. Sigh.
vrocks	light
	Vicious rocks.
	You are landed by some vicious rocks out at sea. A strong current
	flows past at alarming speed round the tattered, half-submerged
	wreckage of a galleon stuck forlornly on them. You can cross to the
	deck of the ship by going northwards, but its front half is underwater.
	To the east in the distance can be seen a beach and cliff. Quite a way
	to the south there looks to be a small island, dominated by a huge
	archway which stands astride it.
deck	light
	Deck.
	You are stood on the deck of a wrecked galleon. To the south are some
	vicious rocks. Upwards, the main mast, still unbroken, leads to the
	crow's nest; to the east are steps to the poop deck, and to the
	northeast is the Captain's cabin. Downwards is the hold.
crow	light	small
	Crow's nest.
	You are perched in the crow's nest, high above the sea where it juts
	out from the deck below. Far, far to the northwest can be glimpsed a
	mysterious island, and to the east over the sea are cliffs.
stpoop	light	small
	Steps.
	You are on some shakey steps leading from the deck upwards to the poop.
poop	light
	Poop deck.
	You are on the poop deck of the wrecked galleon. Westwards, steps lead
	down to the deck. The wheel of the ship is stiffened and will not move
	an inch. A name carved into it reads, "H.M.S. Essex".
capt	light
	Captain's cabin.
	This cabin was once occupied by the captain of the ship. Most of the
	contents have been washed away, and all that remains is driftwood. To
	the southwest is an opening leading to the deck, and a hole in the
	floor leads downwards to the galley.
galley	light	nolook
	Galley.
	This used to be the kitchen of the galleon, but all the utensils have
	been washed away. A hole in the floor leads to the powder room, and
	one in the roof leads to the captain's cabin.
proom	light
	Powder room.
	The smell of sulphur fills the air as you look around you in the
	storage place for gunpowder. Most of the kegs have been broken by the
	elements, and are now useless. There was a way down but it is flooded.
	Upwards is an opening in the ceiling to the galley.
hold	light
	Hold.
	This is what remains of the hold which is unflooded. The walls are
	stained black with the pitch used for waterproofing. The only
	exit is upwards to the deck.
dead23	light	death
	You enter the powder room, and smell sulphurous fumes just before
	igniting the powder ingrained in the wooden walls, and blowing
	yourself to kingdom come. At least you went with a bang!
bwfall	small	light	nolook
	Behind waterfall.
	You are in a small room behind a thundering waterfall. Above and
	around you is a mighty cliff, and the walls of the cave glitter as
	they catch the fractured light from outside. A spiral staircase to
	the east leads upwards into the rock.
spiral	small
	Spiral staircase.
	This is a spiral staircase, carved into the rock. Above, the steps
	stop and a vertical section of steps follows. Below can be heard a
	thundering crescendo of noise, and the sea can be smelled.
vert	small	dmove	spiral
	Vertical staircase.
	This is a tight vertical climb, the steps hewn into the rocks in a
	ladder-like arrangement. Above is a small room whence a hum ensues,
	and below is a spiral staircase leading downwards.
revrm	small
	Reverberating room.
	The walls around you in this small, oval room are humming as the
	crashing of the waterfall outside resonates through the cliff. The
	way out is a vertical climb leading downwards to the west, and another
	passage runs northwards on the same level.
revps	small	light
	Reverberating passage.
	This passage also reverberates with the crashing of the waterfall
	outside, but not so much as the reverberating room to the south.
	Light comes from an opening onto a room to the north.
grotto	light
	Grotto.
	This is a grotto, high up in the cliffs, but concealed from the beach by
	an overhang. Out to sea can be seen a wrecked ship, tossed by some
	fearful storm onto a pincushion of vicious rocks. Above is the cliff.
fossrm	small
	Fossil room.
	This ancient room has not been visited in centuries until this day. Its
	walls are studded with ancient fossils of creatues belonging to a bygone
	era. An eerie sense of awe and wonder permeates the timeless cave.
fortun	light
	Forbidding tunnel.
	You are in a forbidding tunnel underneath a mighty cliff. Light comes
	from the western end, from which can also be heard the sound of the
	sea. At the eastern end the rock becomes harder and the sea has not
	eroded it. However, there are support braces for a heavy iron grate
	there, in the roof.
smuggl
	Smugglers' cave.
	The irregularily-shaped room in which you find yourself is an old
	cave, initially opened up by the sea but since enlarged upon by man.
	Years ago, it was used as a hiding place by smugglers. In the floor
	is a heavy iron grate, and below is a forbidding tunnel.
oglair
	Ogre's lair.
	This is a large room used as a home by an ogre. The floor is littered
	with the bones of the dead, licked clean by the monster. A dark passage
	exits to the north, and there is a small opening to the south. The
	smell in the room is reminiscent of animals, and of the grave...
ydead8	light	death
	The ogre picks up his club and pounds you into the ground.
leprm	small
	Leprechaun room.
	This is a small but pretty room owned by a leprechaun. The furniture
	and ornaments are much too small to be of use to a human, however. The
	only way out is to the north, whence a rotting smell ensues.
befidl	light
yrdead	light	death
	You are splattered over a very large area, or at least most of you
	is. The rest of your remains are, even now, being eaten by the
	seagulls (especially your eyes). If you'd have looked properly before
	you leaped you might have decided not to jump!
outhut	light
	In front of hut.
	You are standing in front of a ramshackle hut. Behind you is a field
	of gorse. Further on to the south you can see a fast flowing river.
	To the east you can see a range of mountains wreathed in mist and
	to the west is a small cottage.
root	light
	Root room.
	You are in a room of tangled yew roots. There appears to be a passable
	gap to the north from whence emanates a dim light; to the south has
	been hewn a smooth tunnel. Light comes from a hollow tree stump above.
rtun1	light
	Root tunnel.
	You are in an underground tunnel, with dry roots hanging from the
	walls, and littering the floor. As you walk, you feel the twigs
	snapping under your feet. The tunnel runs north to south, with a
	dim light coming from the northern end, and a room of roots to the
	south.
rtun2	light
	Northern part of root tunnel.
	You are in the northern part of a subterranean tunnel, its walls and
	ceiling a mass of dangling, dry root from the tree above. There is a
	dim light to the north, where the tunnel opens up. To the south, the
	tunnel continues.
ydead1	light	death
	As you push your way through the hanging roots, the tinder dry wood
	catches fire from your burning torch. The flames leap rapidly from
	root to root, and soon you are surrounded by a raging fire. You feel
	your body charring as you fall to the ground in utter agony...
dead10	light	death
	When you drop your torch, the tinder dry wood ignites from the
	flame and an instant later you are burned to a frazzle as the
	sparks flash across the roots. Serves you right for playing with
	fire...
altar	light
	Sacred room.
	You are standing in a room faced with smooth marble. The central
	feature is a large, immobile block, out of which springs a tall flame,
	throwing the empty corners of the room into vague, flickering shadow.
	To the east is a dark tunnel, and to the south the only other entrance.
antech	small	light
	Ante chamber.
	You are standing in a small chamber carved out of the earth. To the
	west is a tunnel, out of which emanates a dim glow. A mysterious
	doorway is to the east, painted in a deep crimson colour.
hchamb
	Hallowed chamber.
	This is a sanctified, hallowed chamber, set off from the main temple by
	an opening to the south. A faint smell of bitter incense still hangs
	silently in the cold air. Most of the treasures which were once to be
	found here have been stolen.
temple
	Temple.
	You are in a silent, sinister temple, its walls and a doorway to the
	west painted in a deep crimson colour. The scent of stale incense
	still lingers on, although the temple has remained unused for some
	time and most of its trappings have been removed. A sliding chute
	leads down to here from the east, but it is impossible to ascend.
	In the north wall is an opening to a small chamber.
tunnel
	Earth tunnel.
	Before you is a convoluted earth tunnel. It seems to have been made
	by a gang of cheery dwarves. Then again it might not have been. The
	only exits appear to be to the north and southeast.
lgrm
	Large room.
	This is a very large room, at least 60 feet in diameter and some 20
	feet high. There are no apparent doors, but the walls are so full of
	nooks and crannies that you might be able to go in any direction if
	you tried. The only obvious exit is to the northwest.
wolfrm
	Wolf room.
	The evil stench of death hangs heavy on the wind in this most noxious
	of rooms. The walls and floor are coated with the crusted excrement of
	some massive hound, including the bones of brave men, licked clean
	in some ghastly display of macabre carnage. There is an exit to the
	west, and a deathly passage leading down...
deathp
	Deathly passage.
	This passage carries the scent of death, as it slants down from the
	west to deep underground at the east. A stream of dried blood meanders
	from the room at the top, and at the bottom the passage levels off.
cinder	nolook
	Cindered room.
	The floor on which you stand is deep in cinders, and its walls are
	blackened with soot from some incredible fire which must have once
	raged here in some lost time. The walls beneath the soot are
	glass-like, fused together by the radiant energy of the inferno.
	To the west is a passage leading upwards, and to the east a strange
	portal...
diamnd	nolook
	Diamond room.
	When you enter the room, you feel a sudden sense of change around
	you, although you cannot pinpoint the exact reason behind the
	instinct. You soon forget this, however, as your eyes catch sight
	of the floor: it is studded with diamonds! You leap down to pick them
	up, but most are solidly fused in place. Looking around you, you see
	a deathly passage sloping upwards to the west, and a strange doorway
	to the east...
firept	light	hideaway
	Fiery pit.
	A narrow ledge here is the only safe place to tread, as a bubbling
	pit of fiery tar and sulphur is on either side. The only exit is to
	the west, into a passage still heated by the flames from the pit.
	Breathing is difficult, but you can still get enough oxygen, albeit
	with discomfort.
estlpl
	East side of still pool room.
	You are in a vaguely circular room with a high ceiling. The
	way west is interposed by a large pool, but east is a hole in the wall.
wstlpl
	West side of still pool room.
	You are on the west side of the still pool room. There appear to
	be no exits.
tombrm
	Tomb room.
	Above you, a set of narrow stairs lead upwards out of the tomb. To the
	south is a scraped-out passage, above which is scrawled in crimson,
	"EMERALD AND RED HAVE VALUE". The rest of the walls appear devoid of any
	markings and there appears to be no other exit apart from the passage to
	the south.
rottrm
	Rotting room.
	You are in a room of badly hollowed-out earth. The floor is littered
	with rotting debris as if some evil feast of saphrophitic carnage
	had been interrupted by your arrival. The only ways out from this
	foul-smelling hole seem to be to the west and north.
cavein
	Caved-in grave.
	You are underneath a caved-in grave, although there is no way up
	to the surface from here. Most of the corpse from the grave appears
	to have been devoured so perhaps the cave-in was no accident...
	To the west is a small chute which leads downwards, but you won't
	be able to come back if you take it, or carry anything with you.
befgte	light
	Before Gate.
	You are standing in front of a huge oaken gate, rotted through over
	the ages so passage is easy. To the north is a narrow ledge over a deep
	pit, and to the south a dark passage whence drifts the scent of animals.
	The scene is visible by light beyond a smallish hole in the west wall.
	You can travel through the gate, to the east.
bef1
	Before idol.
	You are stood in front of a huge idol of a cyclops, hewn into the
	rock face and towering above you. To the west is a large doorway but
	the door has long since rotted away. Stairs run up the side of the idol
	to an opening at the mouth, and beyond. To the north is a small opening.
crypt
	Ancient crypt.
	As you crawl out through the room, a sense of reverence comes over you,
	for you find you are in a crypt. It has obviously not been entered for
	a long time, and is stark and sparse save for a marble block in the
	centre of the room, which is immobile.
ydead5	light	death
	As you leap, you suddenly realise that you are about to be splattered
	all over the floor. Sure enough, you are.
ydead4	light	death
	As you start to cross the narrow ledge, the ox, nervous because of the
	tremendous drop, is reluctant to follow and gives you a nudge with
	its nose. You are knocked off balance and plummet downwards, breaking
	into little pieces when you finally hit the bottom.
saltar	small
	Small altar room.
	You are in a small room with an altar in front of you. Apart from the
	narrow ledge there is no way out.
mthidl
	Outside mouth of idol.
	You are stood by the mouth of a large and ancient idol of a cyclops.
	To the west, lower down, can be seen a tall but rotted gate. Above
	are the nose and eye of the colossus.
inmth
	Inside mouth of idol.
	You are stood in the opening at the mouth of the idol. The walls are
	blacked with the incense of ages passed. An opening to the east leads
	deeper into the rock, whereas the mouth of the idol is to the west.
hollow
	Hollowed-out passage.
	This is an east-west passage, carved through the granite of the
	mountain. At the west end is an opening to a small room, and at
	the east a junction with some roughly hewn steps going downwards,
	and the rest of the passage. The steps downwards curve away to the left.
rsteps
	Roughly hewn steps.
	You are on a spiral staircase, curving downwards into the bowels
	of the mountain. The walls are solid rock, and the staircase is
	narrow.
Rockps
	Rock passage.
	This is a passage carved into the rock, running east-west. At the
	west end the passage continues, and makes a junction with some
	steps leading downwards. At the east end the passage opens into
	a chamber of some description.
chambr
	Ancient chamber.
	This is a ghostly chamber, its aged walls decorated with strange
	glyphs and ancient runes which you cannot understand. To the west
	is an opening to a passage. The eerie shadows cast by your light
	add to the feeling of time and wonder you sense around you.
uland1
	Staircase landing.
	You are stood in a small open area, which makes a junction a spiral
	staircase leading both up and down. The steps down are much more
	worn than those up, and the landing shows signs of recent use. To
	the north is a battle-scarred oaken doorway.
guadrm
	Guard room.
	You are in a plain room of sanded granite, with seats set into the
	wall which are well worn. To the south is an oaken doorway.
wstep1
	Worn steps.
	You are on a worn spiral staircase leading both up and down.
wstep2
	%wstep1
	You are on a worn spiral staircase leading both up and down.
wstep3
	%wstep1
	You are on a worn spiral staircase leading both up and down.
uland2
	Bottom of worn steps.
	You have reached the bottom of some worn steps, and find yourself in
	a roughly-made room. The steps lead upwards, and to the west is an
	exit to a natural cavern.
natcav
	Natural Cavern.
	This is a large natural cavern, caused by fissures in the rocks eons
	ago. There is a well-worn path leading east-west, although the
	cavern is bedded with granite. At the east end are steps to a landing;
	at the west the cavern joins a north-south passage.
passg1
	Passage.
	You are in a narrow, north-south passage which continues in both
	directions. To the west is a doorway, and to the east is an entrance
	to a natural cavern.
passg2
	%passg1
	This is a narrow north-south passage. At the north end is a doorway,
	and to the south the passage continues.
passg3
	%passg1
	This is a narrow north-south passage. At the south end is a doorway,
	and to the north the passage continues.
passg4
	%passg1
	This is a narrow east-west passage. At the east end is a doorway, at
	the west an opening to a room.
passg5
	%passg1
	This is a narrow east-west passage. At the east end is a doorway, at
	the west an opening to a room.
passg6
	%passg1
	You are in a narrow north-south passage. At the south end is a doorway,
	at the north an opening to a room.
passg7
	%passg1
	You are in a narrow north-south passage, opening to a room at either
	end.
passg8
	%passg1
	This is a narrow east-west passage, with a doorway at the west and and
	an opening to a room at the east.
passg9
	%passg1
	You are in a narrow east-west passage. To the east are steps leading
	upwards, and to the west the passage curves away to the left as you
	look at it. In the north wall is a doorway.
pass10
	%passg1
	This is a narrow stretch of passage running east-west. At the east end
	it joins a crooked passage, and at the west it stops. There is an
	opening in the north wall at the west end leading to a long passage, and
	one in the south wall at the west end leading into a room.
gob1
	Goblin lair.
	This is a filthy room, vaguely square, with a doorway in the south wall
	and an opening to a passage in the west.
gob2
	%gob1
	This is a filthy room, roughly square-shaped, with a doorway on the
	west wall and openings to passages in the north, east and south.
gob3
	%gob1
	This dirty room is roughly square-shaped, with a doorway on the north
	wall and an opening to a passage on the east.
gob4
	%gob1
	This is an unclean room, rectangular in shape, with an opening to the
	south and a doorway to the north. There doesn't appear to be any way
	of opening or unlocking the door from this side.
gob5
	%gob1
	This disgusting room is square-shaped. In the east wall is a doorway,
	and to the south is an opening to a passage. There is a steep chute
	in the north wall, leading down, but if taken you won't be able to
	get back up through it.
treasc
	Treasure chamber.
	You find yourself in a room decked out in all manner of fabulous
	valuables hoarded by the goblins over the years. Most of them,
	however, are fabulous only in the eyes of goblins and there mightn't
	be any you'd consider as treasure yourself. To the south in this room
	is a doorway, and there is also a chute leading upwards, but it's
	impossible to ascend.
ewstep
	East-west steps.
	You are on a staircase running down to the west and up to the east. At
	the top is a room, at the bottom a passage.
curve
	Curved passage.
	This is a semi-circular passage, which bends to the east onto a passage
	at the north end, and to the northeast onto a diagonal passage at the
	southernmost end. If looked at from above, with north at the top and
	south at the bottom, it could be described as the left half of a circle.
diagps
	Diagonal passage.
	This is a narrow passage, running diagonally from the southwest to the
	northeast. At the southwest end, it comes onto a passage which curves
	away to the right, and at the northeast end is space for a vertically
	sliding panel.
spanel
	Sliding panel room.
	In this room you find space for a vertically sliding panel in the east
	wall, but apart from that there are no interesting features. The only
	exit is to the west where steps lead downwards. The place where the
	panel goes has solid rock behind it.
bluerm	small
	Blue room.
	This is a smallish room, painted in a bright royal blue for some reason,
	from the ceiling to the floor. The way out is to the southwest, behind
	where a vertically sliding panel is obviously intended to go.
longps
	Long passage.
	You are in a long, narrow, north-south passage. At the north end it
	goes into a room, at the south it joins a crooked passage running
	east-west.
crookp
	Crooked passage.
	This is a crooked passage running essentially east-west. At the west
	end it straightens out, and at the east are narrow steps leading down.
	There is an opening in the north wall leading onto a long passage.
nstep1	small
	Narrow steps.
	You are on some narrow steps, running a long way downwards from west to
	east.
nstep2	small
	%nstep1
	You are on some narrow steps, running up from east to west. The steps
	are old, and look rarely used.
nstep3	small
	%nstep1
	You are on some narrow steps, running up from east to west. The steps
	are old, and look rarely used.
uland3
	Bottom of stairs.
	You are in a small landing, deep in the bowels of the earth. The only
	way out looks to be by some steps at the west end which run upwards. In
	the northwest corner of this oval-shaped room is a widish, polished
	chute, but it runs upwards and is slippery, so you cannot take it. Don't
	know why I bothered mentioning it, actually!
lsp1
	Long sloping passage.
	This is a long, sloping passage, running from the south upwards to the
	north, with openings at both ends.
lsp2
	%lsp1
	This is a long, sloping passage, running from the south upwards to the
	north, with openings at both ends.
lsp3
	%lsp1
	This is a long, sloping passage, running from the south upwards to the
	north, where can be seen a dim light.
river3	light
	Underground river.
	You are on the banks of a fast-flowing river. High above is an opening
	in the mountain, whence comes daylight, but it is impossible to reach
	it. The river flows east-west, but underground at either end so you
	cannot follow it. There is a slight bank to the north of you, and a
	passage sloping downwards to the south.
nbank	small	light
	North bank of underground river.
	This is the north bank of the river, and is slightly muddy but not bad
	enough to make you slip. Light comes from the opening high above.
cannrm
	Cannon room.
	You are in a square-shaped room. To the north is an opening onto a
	passage, and to the south is a doorway. In the room, facing the
	doorway, is an old ship's cannon.
fowrm	light	small
	Fountain room.
	An unmistakable sense of magic pervades this small room. In one corner
	is a marvellous fountain, sprinkling sparkling water 6 feet into the
	air. To the north is an opening to a larger room, but there are no
	other exits.
eyedol	small
	Nose and eye of idol.
	You are at the top of the idol. The stairs go no further.
attic	light
	Attic.
	This is attic, or the loft. Dust of ages past lies here, barely
	disturbed for generations. The thatched roof of the cottage adds
	to the generally musty smell, and sense of mystery and excitement.
	You can see because a thinning section of thatch lets the light in.
cuptop	nolook
	Top of cupboard.
	You are stood at the top of the ladder in the cupboard. The walls
	are old and the plaster is cracking, especially at the join with
	the cupboard's ceiling. The ladder is very firm and steady.
dead11	light	death
	The cupboard is very small, and as you ascend the ladder you suddenly
	realise that you are running out of air! Try as you might, you cannot
	break your way out of the place, although you bash at all the walls,
	and the ceiling and floor. Eventually you suffocate. Now you know how
	the scratch marks on the wall were made!
laddrm	light	small	dmove	uhut
	Ladder Shaft.
	You are on a ladder, halfway between a hut and an underground room
	dug into the earth. The inside of the hut can be observed through
	holes in the floorboard, and it appears to have walls decorated with
	animal trophies and other assorted items.
uhut
	Underground Room.
	This is an underground room, once used as a den by some forester,
	perhaps. Its floor is covered with a soft moss, and it is surprisingly
	comfortable, with evidence of once having an easy chair, and a fire
	underneath a shaft (for ventilation). The shaft leads upwards and
	contains a ladder affixed to the walls. To the west is a very small
	tunnel, which you can squeeze into but won't be able to turn in.
stun1	small
	Small tunnel.
	You are in a small, claustrophobic, earthen tunnel, curving from the
	north to the east.
stun2	small
	%stun1
	You are in a small, claustrophobic, earthen tunnel, curving from the
	west to the south.
stun3	small
	%stun1
	You are in a small, claustrophobic, earthen tunnel, curving from the
	northwest to the east.
stun4	small
	%stun1
	You are in a small, claustrophobic, earthen tunnel, curving from the
	south to the southeast.
stun5	small
	%stun1
	You are in a small, claustrophobic, earthen tunnel, curving from the
	southwest to the north.
stun6	small
	%stun1
	You are in a small, claustrophobic, earthen tunnel, curving from the
	northwest to the northeast.
stun7	small
	%stun1
	You are in a small, claustrophobic, earthen tunnel, curving from the
	west to the southeast.
stun8	small
	%stun1
	You are in a small, claustrophobic, earthen tunnel, curving from the
	north to the east.
stun9	small
	%stun1
	You are in a small, claustrophobic, earthen tunnel, curving from the
	northwest to the south.
stun10	small
	%stun1
	You are in a small, claustrophobic, earthen tunnel, curving from the
	north to the southeast.
dsteps	light
	Steps to cellar.
	You are on some granite steps leading downwards to the cellar. There
	is a hallway above to the northeast, and below is a dank cellar.
cellar	light
	Cellar.
	This is a dank, murky cellar, its granite-faced walls stained with
	mould and dust. Upwards to the northeast are steps, whence comes
	light enough to see by. To the south is a crack in the wall, leading
	to a small, earthen tunnel, although it looks very cramped and you
	might not be able to turn round and come back were you to enter it.
	To the west is the doorway to the coal bunker.
dead15	light	death
	As you attempt to move in a direction other than along the passage,
	the soft earthen wall starts to crumble. You try to pack it back,
	but the effect increases until the whole tunnel is falling about
	your ears. Desperately, you claw your way through the disintigrating
	passage, but the roof caves down and you are trapped, buried alive
	under the huge weight of soil. A terrible way to go...
dead16	light	death
	You smash yourself into the rocks below and are consequently killed.
sloptn	small
	Sloping tunnel.
	This is a small tunnel sloping from the north down to the south. Its
	walls are earthy but hardened, and only about two feet apart.
level
	Level room.
	The floor of this square-shaped room lies on bedrock, and has been
	chiselled painstakingly so as to be perfectly level. To the north is
	a narrow passage, sloping upwards, and to the south is a short flight
	of steps leading down to a muddy room.
mudrm
	Mud room.
	In this room, a large amount of reddish mud lies on the floor. The
	floor is otherwise of unchiselled bedrock. A short flight of steps
	to the north leads upwards into a square room with a level floor.
schamb
	Small chamber.
	You are in a small chamber with dry, earthy walls. The only exit is
	to the west where you can see a room, its floor is deep in reddish mud.
hotpas	light
	Hot passage.
	You are in a hot passage running east-west. At the west end is a
	strange doorway, and at the east is a fiery pit, which makes the
	atmosphere clammy, and thick with sulphurous fumes.
dead19	light	death
	Kingdom come.
	You find yourself blown to kingdom come. Not really the ideal place
	to spend the rest of your life, especially when you're dead. Next
	time you'll know to put a fuse in and blast with the keg instead of
	trying to burn it...
dead27	light	death
	The ox, afraid of the thundering waterfall, nudges you with its snout
	as you walk under. You trip, and are drowned by the waters, held
	underneath the surface by the falling torrent. Glug glug.
dead28	light	death
	The die comes up one. For an instant, it seems to glow a hellish red,
	then there is an ear-splitting crack, as if the very fabric of the
	universe had been rent. The die explodes into uncountable shards, and
	you are killed by the blast. The goddess of luck must really dislike
	you...
dead29	light	death
	Mistletoe is poisonous, simpleton! Don't you know ANYTHING?
dead30	light	death
	You try to set sail, but the seas are much rougher than you had
	anticipated. Desperately, you try to make your way back to the shore,
	realising that death is inevitable. You are right, and inevitably die.
dead31	light	death
	Off you jump, safe in the knowledge that your pseudo-parachute will
	save you from certain death. Unfortunately, the strong winds coming
	off the sea blow it out of your hands! Guess what happens next..?
dead33	light	death
	You poison yourself, simpleton.
dead34	light	death
	You start to move, and suddenly the squirrels start acting very
	viciously. They scamper about you scratching and clawing, then, as
	one, they leap at you and start gnawing at your flesh with their
	sharp incisors. You try to beat them off, but they are too many and
	are incensed by something into a maddened rage. Eventually you are
	torn to pieces. I wonder what it is you did? Or didn't do?
dead37	light	death
	>-KABOOM-<
dead39	light	death
	You walk out of the coal bunker, but the coal dust by the door ignites
	from your brand, and an instant later you find you aren't.
dead40	light	death
	All of a sudden the lit torch you are carrying sets fire to your boat,
	and within seconds the wood is in flames. You look about in horror as
	your little craft burns to nothing before your very eyes. Glug glug ()
	glug ().
dead41	light	death
	All of a sudden, from out of nowhere, comes a wall of water, crashing
	towards you with immense power! You are hopelessly trapped, and although
	you try your best you've no time to react. To cut a long story short,
	you get buffeted against the floor and pounded to death. And if you'd
	have survived that you'd have drowned, too...
dead43	light	death
	You leap off, hoping that for some reason you won't kill yourself
	when you land. Where you got that idea from I'll NEVER know...
@txtmap
START
/
     <> [Forest]<>	[Foot]	|
			[Hills]	| [wall]
				|
- - - - ------------------------6 - - - -
	      Narrow Road	  [Way Out]
- - - - ------------------------5 - - - -
				|
			[Foot]	| [wall]
     <> [Forest]<>	[Hills]	|
/
ROAD2
/
 
	     <> [Forest]<>
 
- - - - ------------------------- - - - -
	      Narrow Road
- - - - ------------------------- - - - -
 
[Veg.
Garden		Gorse]	     <> [Forest]<>
/
OSTART
/
<> [Forest]<>  |		   |     <> [Forest]<>
	     |	[Cemetery]   |
	     |		   |
- - - - -----6----     ----6----- - - - -
[Beaten Track]	Narrow Road
- - - - ---------5     4--------- - - - -
		 |     |
[Flower]		 | [Path]|	[Veg.
Garden]		 |     |	[Garden]
/
HOME
/
[ROOT		MAZE1		INMTH]		Also	[START]	out
							[STORE]	in
	4------------------5				[SWAMP]	swamp
[CAPT]    |	HOME	   |	[NATCAV			ROST]	jump
	3------------------6				[BDRM]	up
							[CANNRM]	down
[BEACH]	     <> [GLADE]<>		[CAVE]
/
STORE
/
	4---------------5
	|		|
	|     STORE	8	[your guess is as good as mine]
	|		|
	3---------------6
 
/
LIMBO
/
 
 
		LIMBO
 
 
/
NFRST1
/
<> [Forested Slope]<>     <> [Forested Slope]<>
 
<> [Forest]<>     <> Forest<>     <> [Forest]<>
 
<> [Forest]<>     <> [Forest]<>     <> [Forest]<>
/
NFRST4
/
	|    <> [Forested Slope]<>
	|
   [cliff]|    <> Forest<>     <> [Forest]<>
	|
	|    <> [Forest]<>     <> [Forest]<>
/
@txtvoc
	links
	chip
	oven
	chair
	triumph
	burner
	prod
	rivet
	onledge
	greengem
	herring
	gateway
	wvol
	height
	springh2o
	mpoint
	fitting
	dwarfs
	ore
	duct
	torrent
	pickaxe
	lantern
	wheel
	csselesu
	sink
	cord
	arachnid
	tooth
	sandstone
	coffin
	corpse
	carving
	tombs
	ratstop
	spstop
	cricket
	anthracite
	fish
	commode
	vermin
	plaything
	trumpet
	nut
	cup
	scythe
	signpost
	clanger
	fungus
	sword
	killer
	ivory
	sprig
	pottery
	time
	tubes
	creeper
	paw
	guardian
	relic
	fruit
	pegasus
	bird
	onyx
	pan
	crystal
	symbols
	case
	lookingglass
	scarab
	bunny
	enemy
	fissure
	coat
	warren
	rings
	ball
	paper
	cannon
	spray
	goblin
	rodents
	charm
	enclave
	utensil
	sliding
	cloth
	fuse
	curse
	book
	tome
	adventurer
	keg
	boat
	pen
	marble
	iron
	infection
	tub
	earth
	head
	trapdoor
	slidingwall
	trpdoor
	monster
	fairy
	crock
	rock
	necklace
	knife
	beast
	view
	eview
	tview
	wretch
	stradivarius
	pointer
	violinbow
	hound
	wood
	shell
	bone
	map
	sheepskin
	band
	block
	disk
	animal
	lake
	ice
	limb
	idol
	bedclothes
	headstone
	glove
	birdofprey
	any
	lizard
	switch
	crucifix
	oneway
	slate
	ram
	ladder
	secretdoor
	drawbridge
	rum
	biscuit
	magic
	skeleton
	toy
	antidote
	flower
	trunk
	parachute
	haunt
	rug
	urn
	veil
	brass
	man
	woman
	recorder
	bangle
	frog
	nanny
	china
	platter
	mace
	metal
	archway
@txtcsy
	sheets	bedclothes	;these and the rest here might as well be for objects
	covers	bedclothes
	nuts	nut
	bough	sprig
	wedgewood	pottery
	trophy	head
	rodent	rodents
	undead	enemy
;;vocabulary objects
@txtobj
	chain	links	4000	40
	mosaic	chip	10	5
	stove	oven	0	0
	trophy	triumph	1000	35
	throne	chair	60000	200
	forge	flame	0	0
	poker	prod	3000	20
	icicle	ice	1000	0
	pot	container	2000	0
	wandvolume	wvol	0	0
	fur	coat	15000	7	
	potty	container	1000	0
	baton	pointer	60	0
	violin	stradivarius	300	20
	bow	violinbow	1000	0
	stethoscope	tubes	750	12
	emerald	greengem	30	60
	objonledge	onledge	100000	0
	cliff	height	100000	0
	bolt	rivet	1000	15
	disc	disk	30	22
	gate	gateway	100000	0
	springwater	springh2o	100000	0
	medpoint	mpoint	100000	0
	dwarf	dwarfs	70000	25
	tin	ore	2000	15
	ventilator	duct	100000	0
	uranium	metal	1000	92
	arch	archway	100000	0
	flood	torrent	100000	0
	pick	pickaxe	5000	0
	lamp	lantern	1000	0
	osselesu	csselesu	100000	0
	valve	wheel	100000	0
	filling	tooth	1	10
	sarcophagus	coffin	0	0
	body	corpse	75000	58
	inscription	carving	0	0
	horn	trumpet	400	46
	tomb1	tombs	0	0
	tomb2	tombs	0	0
	tomb3	tombs	0	0
	tomb4	tombs	0	0
	tomb5	tombs	0	0
	tomb6	tombs	0	0
	vase	china	4000	49
	sceptre	mace	200	48
	rstop	ratstop	0	0
	sptrap	spstop	0	0
	coal	anthracite	1000	15
	squirrels	rodents	0	117
	slab	slate	100000	0
	locket	charm	20	57
	niche	enclave	0	0
	fork	utensil	30	68
	fleece	sheepskin	2000	50
	headband	band	1000	175
	skull	ram	100	175
	acorn	nut	5	0
	chalice	cup	1500	25
	sickle	scythe	1250	25
	sign	signpost	15000	19
	bell	clanger	3000	25
	broadsword	sword	2250	163
	longsword	killer	2250	0
	sabre	sword	2250	0
	rapier	sword	2250	0
	epee	sword	2250	0
	cutlass	sword	2250	0
	foil	sword	2250	0
	scimitar	sword	2250	0
	flute		recorder	750	20
	effigy	sandstone	1550	41
	bat	cricket	1250	15
	toadstool	fungus	10	0
	die	ivory	20	20
	mistletoe	sprig	30	0
	lever	switch	0	0
	chart	map	300	0
	mirror	lookingglass	1000	30
	amulet	scarab	50	20
	oracle	treasure	1200	10
	ornament	pottery	10	71
	sundial	time	0	16
	ivy	creeper	0	0
	kipper	herring	52	7
	foot	paw	30	5
	apple	fruit	150	17
	horse	pegasus	40000	48
	gull	bird	1500	69
	birdbath	sink	0	0
	lion	onyx	1800	17
	pancake	pan	2000	7
	crystals	crystal	100	0
	bottle	rum	3000	49
	wafer	biscuit	5	0
	runes	symbols	100000	0
	bookcase	case	0	0
	libram	tome	3000	10
	magazine	adventurer	300	31
	rabbit	bunny	2000	7
	rat	vermin	10000	8
	hole	warren	0	0
	scroll	paper	40	0
	sphere	ball	20000	51
	gun	cannon	0	0
	ballview	view	0	0
	fountain	spray	0	500
	goblins	goblin	20000	17
	zombie	enemy	30000	18
	skeleton	enemy	40000	25
	magbar	any	0	0
	panel	sliding	0	0
	egg	curse	100	102
	brick	block	0	0
	naughty	toggles	0	0
	wardrobe	fitting	0	0
	earrings	rings	20	15
	silk	cloth	5000	28
	string	fuse	10	0
	logbook	book	0	0
	powder	keg	10000	0
	coracle	boat	10500	0
	raft	boat	10500	0
	quill	pen	5	6
	moose	head	7500	40
	grate	iron	0	0
	barrel	tub	40000	0
	mud	earth	0	0
	portcullis	drawbridge	0	0
	icon	relic	2000	300
	golem	guardian	70000	60
	beggar	wretch	45000	22
	wolf	hound	140000	165
	dragon	lizard	256000	1000
	shark	fish	70000	120
	dryad	wood	70000	50
	pillar	marble	50000	30
	conch	shell	300	23
	fossil	bone	30	0
	bracelet	bangle	100	70
	plate	platter	500	85
	prince	man	75000	50
	beauty	woman	60000	50
	toad	frog	1500	0
	goat	nanny	20000	20
	web	cord	0	32
	spider	arachnid	20000	65
	crack	fissure	0	0
	tdoor	trapdoor	0	0
	trpdor	trpdoor	0	0
	sliwal	slidingwall	0	0
	doll	plaything	2000	15
	chest	infection	20000	15
	ogre	monster	100000	35
	leprechaun	fairy	10000	37
	gold	crock	10000	50
	granite	rock	0	0
	pendant	necklace	700	75
	pool	lake	0	0
	pendview	view	0	0
	leg	limb	5000	0
	ox	beast	40000	75
	blade	knife	0	0
	eyeview	eview	0	0
	rootview	tview	0	0
	tunview	tview	0	0
	eye	idol	100	39
	statue	decoration	5000	19
	cupboard	oneway	0	0
	stepladder	ladder	100000	0
	sdoor	secretdoor	0	0
	wand	magic	500	0	 
	umbrella	parachute	1200	0	 
	parasol	parachute	700	14
	rattle	toy	100	0
	bed	bedclothes	0	11
	tree	trunk	0	0
	grave	headstone	0	0
	gauntlet	glove	2600	22
	eagle	birdofprey	50000	79
	tomb	haunt	0	0
	potatoes	victuals	2500	40
	wolfsbane	antidote	100	-200
	hyacinth	flower	50	15
	cross	crucifix	100	60
	carpet	rug	7000	35
	incense	urn	1500	20
	curtain	veil	1200	20
	ring	brass	20	110
@txtosy
	guard	dwarf
	cookie	wafer
	ss	stethoscope
	coals	fire
	icicles	icicle
	post	sign
	lib	libram
	library	libram
	vent	ventilator
	ma	magazine
	mad	magazine
	hc	hyacinth
	hiacynth	hyacinth
	stump	tree
	stiff	body
	ming	china
	floor	inscription
	cadavre	body
	cadaver	body	;be kind to yanks week
	rats	vermin
	z	zombie
	crescent	sickle
	berries	mistletoe
	gnomon	brand
	grail	chalice
	seed	acorn
	bs	broadsword
	ls	longsword
	brolly	umbrella
	cocaine	naughty
	saphire	sapphire
	pond	lake
	mushroom	toadstool
	lid	tomb
	fiddle	violin
	dial	sundial
	stallion	horse
	seagull	gull
	projectile	sphere
	platinum	sphere
	gunpowder	powder
	rope	string
	wick	string
	strand	string
	feather	quill
	dog	wolf
	frankincense	incense
	drape	curtain
	amber	pendant
	finger	fossil
	taties	potatoes
	jade	ox
	ruby	eye
	rod	wand
	staff	wand
	yew	tree
	spuds	potatoes
	herb	wolfsbane
	wolvesbane	wolfsbane
	squirrel	squirrels
	begger	beggar
	skin	fleece
	sheep	ram
	pelt	fleece
	pc	portcullis
	bc	bookcase
	bk	bookcase
	lep	leprechaun
	butt	barrel
	club	ogre
	earring	earrings
@txtmtn
fastatn	get
	drop
	kill
	wave
	blast
	fix
	$alter
	$arch1
	$arch2
	$arch3
	$arch4
	$blast
	$blind
	$brewing
	$brewing1
	$bump
	$burn
	$change
	$check
	$clear
	$cure
	$cured
	$dead
	$deaf
	$devour
	$dprovoke
	$dragon
	$drunk
	$drunk1
	$drunk2
	$emerge
	$exp
	$fall
	$fdevour
	$firework
	$flood
	$flush
	$fprovoke
	$land
	$message
	$move
	$null
	$dumb
	$out
	$out1
	$paralyse
	$plonk
	$poison
	$poison1
	$poison2
	$pouring
	$pouring1
	$provoke
	$play
	$ratty
	$reseagle
	$smash
	$spider
	$snake
	$snow
	$snow1
	$snow2
	$snow3
	$snow4
	$summer
	$summer1
	$suspend
	$trans
	$uranium
	$winter
	$written
	$zzz

;;vocabulary actions
action	fell	none	none	ifin	null	ufrst1	722
	fell	none	none	ifin	null	ufrst2	722
	fell	none	none	ifin	null	ufrst5	722
	fell	none	none	ifin	null	ufrst3	722
	drop	none	none	holdfirst	null	0	0
	drop	none	none	flipat	null	0	0
	drop	bird	container	unlessprop	null	1	768
	drop	.provoke	birdofprey	container	null	null	1106	0
	drop	fairy	container	null	null	769	0
	drop	pottery	container	null	null	770	0
	drop	china	container	null	null	770	0
	drop	boat	container	null	null	772	0
	drop	nut	container	null	null	773	0
	drop	sprig	container	null	null	774	0
	drop	killer	container	null	null	1088	0
	drop	parachute	container	ifprop	null	0	815
	drop	anthracite	flame	destroy	null	584	0
	summon	none	none	ifin	null	slidin	961
	summon	none	none	ifin	null	fallin	961
	fix	nanny	none	ifprop	null	1	673
	fix	nanny	none	unlessgot	goat	674	0
	fix	nanny	none	ifhave	egg	675	0
	fix	nanny	none	ifin	null	firept	677
	fix	.drop	nanny	none	unlessinc	null	swamp1	678	;NB doesn't catch rest of swamps
	fix	.drop	nanny	none	exp	null	90	679
	get	none	none	ifhave	egg	255	0
	get	anything	person	ifobjis	coracle	593	0
	get	anything	person	ifobjis	raft	593	0
	get	anything	person	ifobjis	mirror	460	0
	get	.get	anything	person	ifobjis	uranium	0	0	-51
	get	.get	anything	person	ifberserk	null	0	0
	get	anything	person	ifobjis	longsword	1087	0
	get	anything	container	ifprop	null	1	816
	get	.remove	anything	container	ifobjis	uranium	0	0	-51
	make	bedclothes	none	ifprop	null	1	1035
	make	bedclothes	none	inc	null	104	1036
@txttop
	toll	clanger	none	ifprop	null	1	986	987
	toll	clanger	none	null	null	926	0	927
	listen	tubes	none	null	null	1068	0
	plant	flower	none	null	null	897	0
	press	flower	book	destroy	null	898	0
	press	flower	tome	destroy	null	898	0
	hints	none	none	null	null	15	0
	wake	herring	none	null	null	1113	0
	wake	woman	none	null	null	4	0
	wake	dwarfs	none	ifprop	null	2	1022
	wake	dwarfs	none	ifprop	null	3	1022
	wake	dwarfs	none	dec	null	1023	1022
	fill	cup	none	null	null	529	0
	fill	rum	none	ifprop	null	1	859
	fill	rum	torrent	unlessprop	second	1	860
	fill	rum	torrent	inc	null	861	0
	fill	rum	stream	inc	null	861	0
	fill	rum	lavatory	inc	null	861	0
	fill	rum	spray	inc	null	861	0
	fill	rum	sink	inc	null	861	0
	fill	rum	tub	null	null	864	0
	fill	rum	weather	unlessprop	rain	1	867
	fill	rum	weather	inc	null	861	0
	fill	rum	none	ifin	null	estlpl	864	0
	fill	none	h2o	unlessobjis	bottle	876	0
	fill	none	h2o	inc	bottle	861	0
	fill	rum	none	null	null	860	0
	pull	limb	none	null	null	1038	0
	pull	switch	none	trans	null	slidin	464	-24
	pull	cord	none	ifprop	null	1	936
	pull	cord	none	set	null	1	935	-27
	examine	switch	none	null	null	465	0
	prise	rivet	none	ifprop	null	0	720
	prise	rivet	pickaxe	dec	null	706	0
	prise	rivet	utensil	destroy	second	707	0
	prise	rivet	sword	dec	null	706	0
	prise	rivet	killer	dec	null	706	0
	prise	rivet	prod	dec	null	706	0
	prise	rivet	scythe	dec	null	706	0
	prise	rivet	tool	unlesslevel	null	3	845
	prise	rivet	tool	dec	null	706	0
	prise	rivet	torch	null	null	708	0
	prise	rivet	magic	null	null	709	0
	prise	rivet	none	null	null	710	0
	prise	ore	none	ifprop	null	0	720
	prise	ore	pickaxe	dec	null	717	0
	prise	ore	sword	dec	null	718	0
	prise	ore	killer	dec	null	718	0
	prise	ore	prod	dec	null	718	0
	prise	ore	tool	unlesslevel	null	3	845
	prise	ore	tool	dec	null	718	0
	prise	ore	none	null	null	719	0
	sharpen	torch	sword	destroy	null	711	0
	sharpen	torch	killer	destroy	null	711	0
	sharpen	torch	knife	destroy	null	711	0
	sharpen	torch	tool	destroy	null	711	0
	sharpen	magic	none	null	null	712	0
	sharpen	torch	none	null	null	713	0
	untether	nanny	none	dec	null	689	690
	bath	bird	none	unlessin	null	bbath	402
	bath	bird	none	inc	null	403	404
	bath	birdofprey	none	unlessin	null	bbath	402
	bath	.provoke	birdofprey	none	null	null	1106	0
	pluck	bird	none	ifzero	null	411	412
	pluck	.provoke	birdofprey	none	null	null	1106	0
	toss	pan	none	expdestroy	null	376	0
	smell	none	crystal	ifobjis	naughty	371	0
	smell	.sleep	crystal	none	destroytogglesex	null	367	368
	smell	flower	none	null	null	899	0
	smell	antidote	none	null	null	1081	0
	climb	space	none	ifin	null	hut	330
	climb	space	none	ifin	null	ufrst5	753
	climb	space	none	ifin	null	ufrst1	753
	climb	space	none	ifin	null	ufrst2	753
	climb	space	none	dead	null	1042	0
	climb	archway	none	null	null	1084	0
	kiss	frog	none	ifsex	null	0	336
	kiss	frog	none	destroycreate	prince	337	0
	kiss	man	none	ifsex	null	0	338
	kiss	man	none	expdestroy	null	339	0
	kiss	woman	none	ifsex	null	1	346
	kiss	woman	none	expdestroy	null	347	0
	kiss	person	sprig	emotion	null	100	788
	kiss	dwarfs	none	ifprop	null	0	1026
	kiss	dwarfs	none	null	null	1027	0
	kiss	beast	none	toggle	null	117	117	699
	kiss	nanny	none	null	null	671	0
	kiss	wretch	none	null	null	1067	0
	prime	cannon	keg	ifprop	powder	1	274
	prime	cannon	keg	decdestroy	powder	275	0
	load	cannon	ball	ifprop	null	2	280
	load	cannon	ball	decdestroy	sphere	276	0	;snakes and ladders joke if using in laddrm and snakes's there?
	roll	.drop	ball	none	inc	null	281	282
	roll	.drop	ivory	none	ifrprop	null	5	497
	roll	.drop	ivory	none	ifprop	null	4	498
	roll	.drop	ivory	none	ifprop	null	3	499
	roll	.drop	ivory	none	ifprop	null	2	500
	roll	.drop	ivory	none	ifprop	null	1	501
	roll	ivory	none	destroytrans	null	dead28	0
	slide	slate	none	null	null	538	0
	enter	spray	none	expinc	null	285	286
	enter	brass	none	unlessprop	null	2	516
	enter	brass	none	trans	null	garden	514
	enter	fitting	none	trans	null	wrdbe	0
	enter	lizard	none	null	null	686	0
	enter	none	none	null	null	513	0
	leave	spray	none	null	null	302	0
	leave	none	none	null	null	565	0
	unfix	.get	head	space	swap	tdoor	193	0
	unfix	head	none	ifprop	null	1	194
	swim	none	none	ifin	null	pond1	341
	swim	none	lake	ifzero	null	160	159
	swim	none	none	unlessin	null	main2	140
	swim	none	none	ifprop	flood	0	738
	swim	none	none	null	null	737	0
	draw	veil	none	ifprop	null	2	224
	draw	veil	none	ifpropdec	null	1	850
	draw	veil	none	set	null	1	851	-7
	att	fuse	keg	destroydec	powder	254	0
	lie	none	bedclothes	null	null	173	0
	ride	beast	none	null	null	176	0
	ride	nanny	none	null	null	668	0
	sit	chair	none	null	null	1001	0
	sit	beast	none	null	null	176	0
	sit	nanny	none	null	null	668	0
	sit	none	web	ifprop	null	1	941
	ride	none	web	ifprop	null	1	941
	beat	none	web	ifprop	null	1	941
	fly	none	web	ifprop	null	1	941
	ride	beast	none	null	null	176	0
	ride	nanny	none	null	null	668	0
	ride	pegasus	none	unlessgot	null	399	0
	ride	pegasus	none	ifhave	mistletoe	400	0
	ride	pegasus	none	trans	null	<wfall	sfrst2>	398
	ride	none	rug	ifprop	null	1	4
	ride	none	rug	ifin	null	attic	12
	ride	none	rug	ifhave	mistletoe	4	0
	ride	none	rug	trans	null	<temple	antech>	211
	beat	rug	none	ifprop	null	1	4
	beat	rug	none	ifin	null	attic	12
	beat	rug	none	ifhave	mistletoe	4	0
	beat	rug	none	trans	null	<cavein	maze4>	211
	sit	none	rug	ifprop	null	1	4
	sit	none	rug	ifin	null	attic	12
	sit	none	rug	ifhave	mistletoe	4	0
	sit	none	rug	trans	null	<attic	bdrm01>	211
	fly	beast	none	null	null	688	0
	fly	nanny	none	null	null	688	0
	fly	rug	none	ifprop	null	1	4
	fly	rug	none	ifin	null	attic	12
	fly	rug	none	ifhave	mistletoe	4	0
	fly	rug	none	trans	null	<beach	jetty>	211
	fly	pegasus	none	unlessgot	null	399	0
	fly	pegasus	none	ifhave	mistletoe	400	0
	fly	pegasus	none	ifin	null	glade	379
	fly	pegasus	none	trans	null	<glade	bstand>	398
	fly	rug	none	ifprop	null	1	4
	fly	rug	none	ifin	null	attic	12
	fly	rug	none	ifhave	mistletoe	4	0
	fly	rug	none	trans	null	<beach	jetty>	211
	fly	none	rug	ifprop	null	1	4
	fly	none	rug	ifin	null	attic	12
	fly	none	rug	ifhave	mistletoe	4	0
	fly	none	rug	trans	null	<beach	jetty>	211
	fly	none	none	unlessgot	horse	430	0
	fly	none	treasure	null	null	400	0
	fly	none	none	ifhave	mistletoe	4	0
	fly	none	none	ifin	null	glade	379
	fly	none	none	trans	null	<glade	bstand>	398
	gallop	pegasus	none	null	null	621	0
	canter	pegasus	none	null	null	622	0
	roll	tombs	none	null	null	623	0
	sit	none	pegasus	unlessgot	null	399	0
	sit	none	pegasus	ifhave	mistletoe	400	0
	sit	none	pegasus	trans	null	<nhill2	shill2>	398
	freeze	lake	ice	null	null	222	4
	melt	ice	flame	destroy	null	178	0
	melt	something	lantern	null	null	740	0
	melt	ice	torch	destroy	null	178	0
	melt	ice	none	unlessin	null	firept	310
	melt	ice	none	destroy	null	178	0
	melt	none	pool	ifprop	null	0	179
	worship	none	idol	floatdestroy	eyeview	124	125
	worship	none	eview	null	null	142	142
	worship	none	none	null	null	141	0
	piss	rum	none	testsex	null	875	872
	piss	container	none	null	null	879	0
	rape	corpse	none	unlesslevel	null	8	644
	rape	corpse	none	iflevel	null	9	644
	rape	corpse	none	testsex	null	647	648
	rape	woman	none	ifsex	null	1	475
	rape	woman	none	expdestroy	null	476	0
	rape	beast	none	null	null	473	0
	rape	.provoke	nanny	none	null	null	670	0
	rape	pegasus	none	null	null	473	0
	rape	bunny	none	testsex	null	477	478
	rape	.provoke	enemy	none	null	null	479	0
	rape	.provoke	goblin	none	null	null	480	0
	rape	wretch	none	null	null	481	0
	rape	hound	none	null	null	473	0
	rape	familiar	none	ifprop	null	9	485
	rape	vermin	none	null	null	581	0
	rape	man	none	testsex	null	482	483
	rape	frog	none	testsex	null	334	478
	milk	beast	none	null	null	641	0
	milk	.provoke	nanny	none	null	null	658	0
	conduct	none	none	unlessgot	baton	803	0
	conduct	none	none	null	null	804	0
	climb	none	ladder	null	null	164	4
	unlatch	none	oneway	ifprop	cupboard	0	165
	unlatch	none	ladder	null	null	162	0
	unlatch	none	oneway	swap	sdoor	161	4
	latch	none	oneway	ifprop	cupboard	1	166
	latch	none	oneway	swap	sdoor	163	4
	unlock	access	none	ifin	null	cannrm	283
	unlock	access	none	ifin	null	downps	349
	unlock	access	yale	ifin	null	gob4	288
	unlock	access	none	ifin	null	gob4	287
	unlock	none	goblin	null	null	292	0
	unlock	none	enemy	null	null	324	0
	unlock	access	bone	null	null	656	0
	lock	access	none	ifin	null	cannrm	283
	lock	access	bone	null	null	656	0
	read	none	none	ifblind	null	1	1069
	read	time	none	ifprop	null	1	383
	read	time	none	unlessprop	rain	0	385
	read	.time	time	none	expinc	null	384	0
	read	tome	none	iflight	null	462	305
	read	adventurer	none	iflight	null	1092	305
	read	paper	none	iflight	null	304	305
	read	map	none	iflight	null	484	305
	read	book	none	iflight	null	548	305
	read	symbols	none	iflevel	null	7	964
	read	symbols	none	dead	null	1043	0
	read	carving	none	iflight	null	610	305
	read	veil	none	iflight	null	857	305
	read	signpost	none	iflight	null	923	305
	read	guardian	none	null	null	1037	0
	read	anything	none	ifobjis	sundial	965	0
	tame	hound	none	null	null	234	0
	wave	none	cord	ifprop	null	1	942
	wave	medication	none	null	null	576	0
	wave	clanger	none	ifprop	null	1	986	987
	wave	clanger	none	null	null	926	0	927
	wave	torch	none	ifprop	null	1	4
	wave	torch	none	inc	null	174	4
	wave	toy	none	iflevel	null	2	261
	wave	toy	none	toggle	rstop	102	102	-17
	wave	pointer	none	unlessgot	null	798	0
	wave	pointer	none	ifhave	mistletoe	4	0
	wave	pointer	none	ifhave	ox	4	0
	wave	pointer	none	ifhave	pillar	4	0
	wave	pointer	none	ifhave	carpet	4	0
	wave	pointer	none	ifhave	goat	4	0
	wave	pointer	none	ifhave	horse	4	0
	wave	pointer	none	ifhave	barrel	4	0
	wave	.drop	pointer	none	transwhere	bow	799	837
	wave	violinbow	none	unlessgot	null	798	0
	wave	violinbow	none	ifhave	mistletoe	4	0
	wave	violinbow	none	ifhave	ox	4	0
	wave	violinbow	none	ifhave	pillar	4	0
	wave	violinbow	none	ifhave	carpet	4	0
	wave	violinbow	none	ifhave	goat	4	0
	wave	violinbow	none	ifhave	horse	4	0
	wave	violinbow	none	ifhave	barrel	4	0
	wave	.drop	violinbow	none	transwhere	baton	805	837
	wave	.drop	magic	none	ifheretrans	osselesu	sorcrm	728
	wave	magic	none	unlessgot	null	562	0
	wave	none	none	unlessgot	wand	236	0
	wave	none	none	unlessobjis	wand	561	0
	wave	none	marble	dead	null	1044	0
	wave	none	sprig	null	null	502	0
	wave	none	rug	null	null	235	0
	wave	.drop	magic	none	trans	null	sorcrm	128
	tidy	bedclothes	none	ifprop	null	1	1035
	tidy	bedclothes	none	inc	null	104	1036
	unmake	bedclothes	none	unlessprop	null	1	1034
	unmake	bedclothes	none	expset	null	2	126
	wear	glove	none	unlessgot	null	798	0
	wear	glove	none	transhere	eagle	1110	1111
	wear	.sleep	band	none	null	null	571	0
	wear	coat	none	null	null	938	0
	wear	necklace	none	null	null	247	0
	light	curse	flame	null	null	259	0
	light	anthracite	flame	destroy	null	584	0
	light	pointer	flame	null	null	800	0
	light	stradivarius	flame	destroy	null	801	0
	light	violinbow	flame	destroy	null	802	0
	light	keg	flame	destroytrans	null	dead19	0
	light	torch	lizard	dec	null	589	4
	light	lantern	none	ifprop	null	2	908
	light	lantern	flame	dec	null	741	4	-19
	light	lantern	lizard	zonk	null	742	0	743
	light	paper	flame	destroy	null	306	0
	light	parachute	flame	destroy	null	601	0
	light	map	flame	destroy	null	491	0
	light	tome	flame	null	null	494	0
	light	adventurer	flame	destroy	null	1093	0
	light	urn	flame	destroy	null	1083	0
	light	something	lantern	unlessprop	second	0	744
	light	something	lantern	null	null	745	0
	light	something	sword	null	null	963	0
	light	something	killer	null	null	963	0
	light	something	oven	null	null	1010	0
	light	urn	torch	destroy	null	1083	0
	light	trunk	torch	ifzero	null	181	182
	light	signpost	none	null	null	918	0
	light	lantern	torch	dec	null	741	4	-19
	light	wood	torch	expdestroy	null	72	0
	light	parachute	torch	destroy	null	601	0
	light	cord	torch	ifpropdestroy	null	0	962
	light	cord	torch	expdestroy	null	939	0
	light	wood	none	null	null	558	0
	light	keg	torch	destroytrans	null	dead19	0
	light	torch	none	ifin	null	firept	241
	light	creeper	none	null	null	437	0
	light	paper	torch	destroy	null	306	0
	light	map	torch	destroy	null	491	0
	light	tome	torch	destroy	second	492	0
	light	adventurer	torch	destroy	null	1093	0
	light	book	torch	destroy	null	493	0
	light	time	torch	inc	null	390	389
	light	anthracite	torch	destroy	null	584	0
	light	parachute	torch	destroy	null	495	0
	light	case	torch	null	null	496	0
	light	infection	torch	destroy	null	506	0
	light	sheepskin	torch	destroyinc	skull	569	0
	light	medication	torch	destroy	null	572	0
	light	corpse	torch	destroy	null	1080	0
	light	corpse	flame	destroy	null	1080	0
	light	pointer	torch	null	null	800	0
	light	stradivarius	torch	destroy	null	801	0
	light	violinbow	torch	destroy	null	802	0
	bath	money	none	dec	null	372	373
	douse	lantern	none	unlessprop	null	0	4
	douse	lantern	none	set	null	1	746	-21
	fold	adventurer	none	iflevel	null	3	1095
	fold	adventurer	none	exp	null	3	1095
	tap	none	none	ifin	null	grotto	466
	tap	trunk	none	null	null	106	0
	tap	earth	none	ifzero	null	70	69
	tap	flame	prod	iflevel	null	2	1000
	tap	flame	prod	exp	null	50	1000
	tap	none	none	unlessin	null	downps	360
	tap	none	none	trans	null	sorcrm	361
	cook	bunny	oven	ifprop	null	2	1011
	cook	bunny	oven	destroy	null	321	0
	cook	bunny	torch	ifprop	null	2	326
	cook	bunny	torch	destroy	null	321	0
	cook	bunny	flame	ifprop	null	2	326
	cook	bunny	flame	destroy	null	321	0
	cook	bunny	none	null	null	639	0
	kick	.provoke	wretch	none	iflevel	null	2	118
	kick	wretch	none	exp	null	1	118
	fell	wood	tool	expdestroy	null	71	0
	fell	.kill	wood	none	null	null	0	0
	fell	cord	tool	null	null	943	0
	fell	cord	sword	ifpropdestroy	null	0	982
	fell	cord	sword	expdestroy	null	978	0
	fell	cord	killer	ifpropdestroy	null	0	982
	fell	cord	killer	expdestroy	null	978	0
	fell	something	sword	null	null	564	0
	fell	something	killer	null	null	564	0
	fell	something	cricket	null	null	605	0
	fell	something	pickaxe	null	null	734	0
	fell	block	none	null	null	136	0
	fell	signpost	tool	dec	null	919	920
	fell	trunk	tool	ifprop	null	0	135
	fell	trunk	tool	decifzero	null	105	136
	fell	trunk	none	ifhave	axe	600	0	;not the jewelled one
	fell	trunk	none	null	null	190	0
	fell	access	tool	ifin	null	cannrm	89
	fell	access	tool	ifin	null	downps	89
	fell	access	tool	ifin	null	gob4	89
	fell	access	tool	ifin	null	treasc	89
	fell	access	tool	ifin	null	fowrm	89
	fell	access	tool	ifin	null	sorcrm	89
	fell	access	mace	ifin	null	cannrm	89
	fell	access	mace	ifin	null	downps	89
	fell	access	mace	ifin	null	gob4	89
	fell	access	mace	ifin	null	treasc	89
	fell	access	mace	ifin	null	fowrm	89
	fell	access	mace	ifin	null	sorcrm	89
	fell	access	mace	destroy	null	643	0
	fell	access	pickaxe	null	null	735	0
	fell	case	tool	null	null	489	0
	fell	case	mace	null	null	489	0
	fell	oneway	tool	destroy	null	783	0
	fell	oneway	mace	destroy	null	783	0
	fell	none	none	unlessin	null	wfrst1	797
	fell	none	none	ifzero	tree	795	796
	feed	something	rum	ifprop	second	0	931
	feed	nanny	pan	null	null	681	0
	feed	nanny	victuals	destroy	second	682	0
	feed	nanny	antidote	destroy	second	682	0
	feed	nanny	flower	destroy	second	682	0
	feed	nanny	fungus	destroydestroy	toadstool	683	0
	feed	nanny	limb	null	null	684	0
	feed	nanny	corpse	null	null	684	0
	feed	nanny	sprig	destroydestroy		mistletoe	685	0
	feed	nanny	frog	null	null	684	0
	feed	nanny	bird	null	null	684	0
	feed	nanny	birdofprey	null	null	684	0
	feed	nanny	rodents	null	null	684	0
	feed	nanny	bunny	null	null	684	0
	feed	nanny	vermin	null	null	684	0
	feed	nanny	familiar	null	null	684	0
	feed	nanny	herring	destroy	second	682	0
	feed	nanny	serpent	null	null	684	0
	feed	nanny	nut	destroy	second	682	0
	feed	nanny	pen	destroy	second	682	0
	feed	nanny	parachute	destroy	second	682	0
	feed	nanny	money	destroy	second	682	0
	feed	nanny	gem	destroy	second	682	0
	feed	nanny	liquid	destroy	second	682	0
	feed	nanny	rum	null	null	930	0
	feed	nanny	medication	destroy	second	682	0
	feed	nanny	paper	destroy	second	682	0
	feed	nanny	map	destroy	second	682	0
	feed	nanny	tome	destroy	second	682	0
	feed	nanny	adventurer	null	null	1094	0
	feed	nanny	book	destroy	second	682	0
	feed	nanny	biscuit	destroy	second	682	0
	feed	nanny	none	null	null	687	0
	feed	rodents	none	unlessin	null	sqroom	531
	feed	rodents	nut	unlessgot	acorn	532	0
	feed	rodents	nut	expdestroy	acorn	533	533
	feed	rodents	none	ifhave	acorn	557	0
	feed	rodents	none	null	null	534	0
	feed	bird	none	unlessprop	null	0	406
	feed	bird	nut	destroy	second	530	0
	feed	bird	rum	null	null	931	0
	feed	.provoke	birdofprey	bunny	ifprop	second	1	0
	feed	birdofprey	bunny	set	second	1	1108
	feed	birdofprey	vermin	destroy	second	1104	0
	feed	birdofprey	bird	destroy	second	1105	0
	feed	.provoke	birdofprey	none	null	null	1106	0
	feed	enemy	limb	expdestroy	null	343	0
	feed	enemy	rum	null	null	932	0
	feed	enemy	corpse	ifprop	null	0	634
	feed	enemy	corpse	expdestroy	null	633	0
	feed	lizard	anthracite	destroy	second	895	0	-15
	feed	lizard	rum	destroy	second	933	0
	feed	monster	none	unlessprop	null	0	148
	feed	monster	limb	incdestroy	leg	146	0
	feed	fairy	fungus	null	null	518	0
	feed	beast	none	unlessprop	null	0	134
	feed	beast	pan	ifzero	null	122	134
	feed	beast	rum	ifzero	null	930	134
	feed	hound	flower	null	null	885	0
	feed	hound	antidote	unlessgot	second	525	0
	feed	hound	rum	null	null	930	0
	feed	.provoke	hound	antidote	ifprop	second	1	453
	feed	hound	antidote	expdestroy	null	231	0	703
	feed	bunny	flower	null	null	885	0
	feed	bunny	antidote	destroy	second	313	0
	feed	bunny	rum	null	null	930	0
	feed	bunny	victuals	null	null	314	0
	feed	bunny	biscuit	destroy	second	1064	0
	feed	wretch	biscuit	null	null	1063	0
	feed	biscuit	wretch	null	null	1063	0
	feed	wretch	victuals	inc	potatoes	167	747
	feed	victuals	wretch	inc	potatoes	167	747
	feed	.provoke	wretch	rum	null	null	934	0
	feed	wretch	none	null	null	319	0
	feed	frog	fungus	null	null	520	0
	feed	something	nut	null	null	528	0
	feed	something	fungus	null	null	517	0
	feed	something	sprig	null	null	521	0
	feed	monster	none	null	null	147	0
	feed	beast	victuals	null	null	122	0
	feed	beast	biscuit	null	null	122	0
	feed	beast	pan	null	null	122	0
	feed	beast	flower	null	null	885	0
	feed	beast	antidote	null	null	123	0
	feed	bird	none	null	null	405	0
	feed	fairy	none	null	null	150	0
	feed	hound	none	null	null	233	0
	feed	familiar	bird	destroy	second	777	0
	feed	bunny	none	null	null	320	0
	dig	none	tview	ifprop	null	0	599
	dig	none	tview	set	null	0	597
	stroke	money	none	dec	null	372	373
	stroke	bunny	none	ifprop	null	2	1040
	stroke	bunny	none	iflevel	null	2	1040
	stroke	bunny	none	exp	null	1	1041
	stroke	beast	none	ifprop	null	2	763
	stroke	beast	none	toggle	null	117	117	699
	stroke	nanny	none	null	null	671	0
	stroke	pegasus	none	unlessgot	null	401	0
	stroke	pegasus	none	ifhave	mistletoe	401	0
	stroke	pegasus	none	trans	null	jetty	1079
	unfurl	parachute	none	dec	null	107	107
	furl	parachute	none	inc	null	108	108
	prise	tombs	none	null	null	612	0
	prise	haunt	none	ifin	null	mosolm	612
	prise	haunt	none	dec	null	111	112
	prize	none	haunt	null	null	113	0
	play	stradivarius	none	unlessgot	null	819	0
	play	stradivarius	none	unlessgot	bow	820	0
	play	stradivarius	none	ifhere	baton	821	0
	play	.freeze	stradivarius	none	ifpropinc	null	0	821	825	-2
	play	.unfreeze	stradivarius	none	dec	null	821	0	825
	play	none	vermin	ifgot	flute	1074	0
	play	recorder	none	ifin	null	bstand	1070
	play	recorder	none	transhere	rat	1071	1072	1073
	diagnose	familiar	none	ifprop	null	0	1099
	diagnose	familiar	none	ifprop	null	9	1100
	diagnose	familiar	none	null	null	1101	0
	diagnose	bunny	none	ifprop	null	1	1102
	diagnose	bunny	none	null	null	1103	0
	diagnose	.diagnose	none	tubes	null	null	0	0
	climb	trunk	none	ifzero	null	137	116
	drink	rum	none	ifprop	null	0	866
	drink	rum	none	set	null	0	868	-8
	drink	.sleep	none	springh2o	iflevel	null	5	1114
	drink	.sleep	none	springh2o	exp	null	5	721
	drink	none	tub	ifprop	null	0	301
	drink	none	none	ifin	null	bbath	429
	drink	none	none	ifhere	pool	863	0	-1
	eat	nut	none	null	null	527	0
	eat	chip	none	null	null	1019	0
	eat	fungus	none	destroytrans	null	dead33	0
	eat	sprig	utensil	destroytrans	null	dtreas	0
	eat	sprig	none	destroytrans	null	dead33	0
	eat	rodents	none	ifin	null	sqroom	536
	eat	.provoke	birdofprey	none	null	null	1106	0
	eat	bird	none	ifprop	null	1	409
	eat	bird	none	destroy	null	410	0
	eat	pan	none	null	null	377	0
	eat	crystal	none	destroy	null	369	0
	eat	sprig	none	destroytrans	null	dead29	0
	eat	limb	none	destroy	null	86	0
	eat	corpse	none	ifprop	null	0	634
	eat	corpse	none	destroy	null	632	0
	eat	beast	none	null	null	180	0
	eat	nanny	none	null	null	669	0
	eat	bunny	none	ifprop	null	2	326
	eat	bunny	none	ifprop	null	0	317
	eat	bunny	none	destroy	null	318	0
	eat	flower	none	destroy	null	886	0
	eat	antidote	none	destroy	null	818	0
	eat	cord	none	ifprop	null	1	944
	eat	cord	none	set	null	1	945	-27
	eat	herring	none	expdestroy	null	1112	0
	eat	biscuit	none	staminadestroy	null	40	1065
	smoke	links	none	null	null	1086	0
	smoke	container	none	ifobjis	pot	761	0
	smoke	flower	none	destroy	null	887	0
	smoke	antidote	none	expset	null	0	209
	ding	clanger	none	null	null	986	0	987
	dong	clanger	none	null	null	926	0	927
	kill	lantern	none	unlessprop	null	0	4
	kill	lantern	none	set	null	1	746	-21
	kill	headstone	none	null	null	824	0
	kill	clanger	none	ifprop	null	1	988	987
	kill	clanger	none	null	null	928	0	927
	kill	curse	none	null	null	258	0
	kill	access	tool	ifin	null	cannrm	89
	kill	access	tool	ifin	null	downps	89
	kill	access	tool	ifin	null	gob4	89
	kill	access	tool	ifin	null	treasc	89
	kill	access	tool	ifin	null	fowrm	89
	kill	access	tool	ifin	null	sorcrm	89
	kill	access	mace	ifin	null	cannrm	89
	kill	access	mace	ifin	null	downps	89
	kill	access	mace	ifin	null	gob4	89
	kill	access	mace	ifin	null	treasc	89
	kill	access	mace	ifin	null	fowrm	89
	kill	access	mace	ifin	null	sorcrm	89
	kill	access	mace	destroy	null	643	0
	kill	access	pickaxe	null	null	735	0
	kill	case	tool	null	null	489	0
	kill	case	mace	null	null	489	0
	kill	oneway	tool	destroy	null	783	0
	kill	oneway	mace	destroy	null	783	0
	kill	drawbridge	none	null	null	785	0
	kill	earth	none	null	null	66	0
	kill	.drop	tub	none	ifprop	null	1	64
	kill	.drop	tub	none	ifinc	null	level	62
	kill	.drop	tub	none	unlessinc	null	mudrm	61
	kill	.drop	tub	none	swap	mud	63	64
	kill	lookingglass	none	unlesssnooping	null	448	0
	kill	.unsnoop	lookingglass	none	set	null	1	447
	kill	ball	cricket	null	null	642	0
	kill	rum	none	destroy	null	865	0
	kill	slate	none	null	null	847	0
	kill	.kill	wood	torch	ifprop	second	1	0
	kill	wood	torch	expdestroy	null	72	0
	kill	cord	tool	null	null	943	0
	kill	cord	sword	ifpropdestroy	null	0	982
	kill	cord	sword	expdestroy	null	978	0
	kill	cord	killer	ifpropdestroy	null	0	982
	kill	cord	killer	expdestroy	null	978	0
	kill	person	pickaxe	hurt	null	10	0	-4
	kill	person	sword	hurt	null	30	0	-4
	kill	person	links	hurt	null	20	0	-4
	kill	person	killer	hurt	null	25	0	-4
	kill	person	prod	hurt	null	15	0	-4
	kill	person	cricket	hurt	null	16	606	-4
	kill	person	rum	hurt	null	5	0	-4
	kill	person	scythe	hurt	null	5	0	-4
	kill	person	utensil	hurt	null	3	0	-4
	kill	person	mace	hurt	null	15	0	-4
	kill	person	magic	hurt	null	20	0	-4
	kill	dwarfs	none	ifpropdestroy	null	1	1025
	kill	dwarfs	pickaxe	hurt	null	32	0
	kill	enemy	limb	expdestroy	null	343	0	-4
	kill	enemy	corpse	ifprop	body	0	634
	kill	enemy	corpse	expdestroy	null	633	0	-4
	kill	vermin	familiar	ifprop	second	9	583
	kill	vermin	familiar	expdestroy	null	582	0	-4
	kill	rodents	none	ifin	null	sqrm	531
	kill	rodents	none	trans	null	dead34	0
	kill	pegasus	none	null	null	395	0
	kill	bird	none	ifprop	null	1	407
	kill	bird	familiar	destroy	null	779	0	-4
	kill	bird	none	destroy	null	408	0	-4
	get	.provoke	birdofprey	none	unlessgot	gauntlet	0	0
	kill	man	none	destroy	null	340	0
	kill	frog	none	null	null	334	0
	kill	wretch	sword	hurt	null	60	0
	kill	wretch	links	hurt	null	60	0
	kill	wretch	cricket	hurt	null	60	607
	kill	woman	tool	hurt	null	15	348
	kill	woman	pickaxe	hurt	null	10	348
	kill	woman	sickle	hurt	null	5	348
	kill	woman	sword	hurt	null	30	348
	kill	woman	links	hurt	null	20	348
	kill	woman	killer	hurt	null	45	348
	kill	woman	prod	hurt	null	15	348
	kill	woman	cricket	null	null	608	0
	kill	woman	rum	hurt	null	10	348
	kill	.kill	woman	none	null	null	348	0
	kill	monster	none	ifprop	null	2	263
	kill	monster	sword	set	null	2	526
	kill	monster	killer	set	null	2	526
	kill	monster	tool	set	null	2	145
	kill	monster	pickaxe	set	null	2	736
	kill	monster	magic	set	null	2	149
	kill	monster	none	trans	null	ydead8	0
	kill	fairy	none	null	null	151	0
	kill	signpost	tool	dec	null	919	920
	kill	signpost	none	null	null	921	0
	kill	trunk	tool	ifprop	null	0	135
	kill	trunk	tool	decifzero	null	105	136
	kill	trunk	none	null	null	190	0
	kill	beast	none	ifprop	null	2	133
	kill	beast	none	ifprop	null	3	133
	kill	beast	knife	set	null	3	121
	kill	bunny	none	ifprop	null	2	326
	kill	bunny	none	ifprop	null	1	316
	kill	bunny	none	inc	null	312	0	-4
	kill	wood	tool	expdestroy	null	71	0
	kill	beast	none	set	null	2	130
	kill	corpse	none	null	null	645	0
	kill	.reset	knob	none	ifobjcount	null	uswamp	50	0
	kill	guardian	sword	hurt	null	8	990
	kill	guardian	links	hurt	null	30	1090
	kill	guardian	killer	hurt	null	12	990
	kill	hound	killer	hurt	null	45	0	-4
	kill	.provoke	guardian	cricket	destroy	second	991	0
	kill	.provoke	guardian	rum	destroy	second	991	0
	kill	.provoke	guardian	pickaxe	destroy	second	991	0
	kill	.provoke	guardian	scythe	destroy	second	991	0
	kill	.provoke	guardian	utensil	destroy	second	991	0
	kill	.provoke	guardian	mace	destroy	second	991	0
	kill	.provoke	guardian	torch	destroy	second	991	0
	kill	.provoke	guardian	prod	destroy	second	991	0
	kill	guardian	magic	transwhere	dwarf	992	4
	kill	something	sword	hurt	null	40	0	-4
	kill	something	links	hurt	null	30	0	-4
	kill	something	killer	hurt	null	60	0	-4
	kill	something	prod	hurt	null	20	0	-4
	kill	something	cricket	hurt	null	22	609	-4
	kill	something	rum	hurt	null	10	0	-4
	kill	something	pickaxe	hurt	null	15	0	-4
	kill	something	scythe	hurt	null	10	0	-4
	kill	something	utensil	hurt	null	5	0	-4
	kill	something	mace	hurt	null	20	0	-4
	kill	something	torch	hurt	null	15	0	-4
	kill	something	magic	hurt	null	30	0	-4
	disect	corpse	none	null	null	646	0
	flee	none	lizard	zonk	null	592	0
	flee	none	enemy	null	null	704	0
	flee	none	dwarfs	ifprop	null	3	1014
	flee	none	dwarfs	ifprop	null	2	1091
	flee	none	none	ifin	null	sea1	585
	flee	none	none	ifin	null	sea2	585
	flee	none	none	ifin	null	sea3	585
	flee	none	none	ifin	null	sea4	585
	flee	none	none	ifin	null	sea5	585
	flee	none	none	ifin	null	sea6	585
	flee	none	none	ifin	null	sea7	585
	flee	none	none	ifin	null	sea8	585
	flee	none	none	ifin	null	sea9	585
	flee	none	none	ifin	null	sea10	585
	flee	none	none	ifin	null	sea11	585
	flee	none	none	ifin	null	sea12	585
	flee	none	none	ifin	null	sea13	585
	flee	none	none	ifin	null	sea14	585
	flee	none	none	ifhave	egg	587	0
	flee	none	none	ifberserk	null	814	0
	flee	.flee	none	none	ifhave	ornament	662	0
	flee	.flee	none	none	unlesshave	vase	0	0
	flee	.flee	none	none	destroy		vase	661	0
	retaliate	pickaxe	none	retal	null	5	0
	retaliate	sword	none	retal	null	15	0
	retaliate	links	none	retal	null	10	0
	retaliate	killer	none	retal	null	12	0
	retaliate	prod	none	retal	null	8	0
	retaliate	cricket	none	retal	null	8	0
	retaliate	rum	none	retal	null	3	0
	retaliate	scythe	none	retal	null	3	0
	retaliate	utensil	none	retal	null	1	0
	retaliate	mace	none	retal	null	8	0
	retaliate	magic	none	retal	null	10	0
	sail	none	boat	unlessgot	null	789	0
	sail	.go	none	none	null	null	0	0
	launch	none	boat	null	null	790	0
	unbeach	none	boat	null	null	790	0
	move	sliding	none	unlessin	null	spanel	294
	move	sliding	none	swap	magbar	295	0
	move	slate	none	null	null	538	0
	move	iron	none	toggle	null	358	357
	move	case	none	ifin	null	ssteps	838
	move	case	none	toggle	null	356	355
	tell	time	none	ifprop	null	1	383
	tell	time	none	unlessprop	rain	0	385
	tell	.time	time	none	expinc	null	384	0
	tell	anything	none	ifobjis	sundial	965	0
	get	.remove	anything	dwarfs	ifobjis	uranium	0	0	-51
	get	.remove	anything	oven	ifobjis	uranium	0	0	-51
	get	.remove	anything	dwarfs	null	null	0	0
	get	.remove	anything	oven	null	null	0	0
	get	anything	lantern	ifprop	second	2	913
	get	anything	lantern	ifzero	second	910	912
	get	block	none	null	null	563	0
	get	knife	none	null	null	1075	0
	get	cord	none	ifprop	null	1	936
	get	cord	none	set	null	1	935	-27
	get	signpost	none	ifprop	null	1	924
	get	nanny	none	ifprop	null	1	657
	get	monster	none	ifprop	null	2	680
	get	monster	none	null	null	567	0
	get	.provoke	vermin	none	null	null	580	0
	get	rodents	none	ifin	null	sqroom	537
	get	rodents	none	null	null	531	0
	get	nut	none	ifin	null	sqroom	535
	get	.get	metal	none	null	null	0	0	-51
	get	.get	ram	none	unlesshere	fleece	0	0
	get	ram	none	dead	null	1045	0
	get	cannon	none	null	null	848	0
	get	none	vermin	null	null	579	0
	get	antidote	none	ifhere	wolf	522	0
	get	.get	sword	none	set	null	0	0
	get	.get	killer	none	ifprop	null	0	0
	get	killer	none	unlesslevel	null	5	1049
	get	.get	killer	none	set	null	0	1021
	get	creeper	none	null	null	437	0
	get	.get	rivet	none	ifprop	null	0	0
	get	.get	rivet	pickaxe	dec	null	706	0
	get	rivet	utensil	destroy	second	707	0
	get	.get	rivet	sword	dec	null	706	0
	get	.get	rivet	killer	dec	null	706	0
	get	.get	rivet	prod	dec	null	706	0
	get	.get	rivet	scythe	dec	null	706	0
	get	rivet	tool	unlesslevel	null	3	845
	get	.get	rivet	tool	dec	null	706	0
	get	rivet	torch	null	null	708	0
	get	rivet	magic	null	null	709	0
	get	rivet	none	null	null	710	0
	get	.get	ore	none	ifprop	null	0	0
	get	.get	ore	pickaxe	dec	null	717	0
	get	.get	ore	sword	dec	null	718	0
	get	.get	ore	killer	dec	null	718	0
	get	.get	ore	prod	dec	null	718	0
	get	ore	tool	unlesslevel	null	3	845
	get	.get	ore	tool	dec	null	718	0
	get	ore	none	null	null	719	0
	get	none	none	ifin	null	doomrm	727
	get	.get	fruit	none	inc	null	0	0
	get	.get	tome	none	inc	null	0	0
	get	beast	none	ifgot	horse	401	0
	get	pegasus	none	ifgot	ox	394	0
	get	beast	none	ifgot	goat	664	0
	get	nanny	none	ifgot	ox	665	0
	get	pegasus	none	ifgot	goat	666	0
	get	nanny	none	ifgot	horse	667	0
	get	.get	familiar	none	unlesshave	gull	0	0
	get	.get	familiar	none	ifprop	gull	1	0
	get	familiar	none	null	null	434	0
	get	.get	bird	none	ifprop	null	1	0
	get	bird	none	ifhave	cat	435	0
	get	.get	stradivarius	none	ifhave	cat	984	0
	get	.get	pegasus	none	null	null	397	0	705
	get	liquid	none	null	null	366	0
	get	pan	none	null	null	374	0
	get	book	none	null	null	322	0
	get	man	none	null	null	333	0
	get	frog	none	null	null	334	0
	get	.get	ball	none	unlessprop	sphere	0	0
	get	.get	ball	none	incdestroy	ballview	0	0
	get	goblin	none	null	null	289	0
	get	enemy	none	unlesswiz	null	327	0
	get	none	enemy	unlesswiz	null	586	0
	get	.get	head	space	swap	tdoor	193	0
	get	head	none	ifprop	null	1	194
	get	.get	necklace	none	incdestroy	pendview	0	0
	get	.get	beast	none	ifzero	null	144	0
	get	.get	veil	none	set	null	2	0
	get	treasure	none	ifin	null	leprm	225
	get	treasure	none	ifin	null	gob1	438
	get	treasure	none	ifin	null	gob2	438
	get	treasure	none	ifin	null	gob3	438
	get	treasure	none	ifin	null	gob4	438
	get	treasure	none	ifin	null	gob5	438
	get	treasure	none	ifhere	pancake	594	0
	get	brass	none	ifprop	null	2	515
	get	brass	none	ifprop	null	0	226
	get	bedclothes	none	null	null	170	0
	get	crock	none	ifprop	leprechaun	0	152
	get	.get	fairy	none	set	null	1	153
	get	idol	none	ifprop	null	0	197
	get	rug	none	ifprop	null	0	210
	get	earth	none	null	null	69	0
	get	.get	bangle	none	togglesex	null	331	332
	get	.get	greengem	none	inc	null	0	0
	get	treasure	none	ifin	null	treasc	507
	get	none	none	ifin	null	swamp2	1039	-49
	get	none	none	ifin	null	swamp3	1039	-49
	get	none	none	ifin	null	swamp4	1039	-49
	get	none	none	ifin	null	swamp5	1039	-49
	get	none	none	ifin	null	swamp6	1039	-49
	get	none	none	ifin	null	swamp8	1039	-49
	get	none	none	ifin	null	swamp9	1039	-49
	get	none	none	ifin	null	swampa	1039	-49
	get	none	none	ifin	null	swampb	1039	-49
	get	none	none	ifin	null	swampc	1039	-49
	get	none	none	ifin	null	swampd	1039	-49
	drop	.insert	curse	dwarfs	null	null	0	0
	drop	.drop	curse	person	null	null	0	0
	drop	curse	lizard	null	null	649	0
	drop	none	none	ifin	null	fallin	893
	drop	none	none	ifin	null	slidin	893
	drop	.drop	curse	none	ifwiz	null	0	0
	drop	curse	none	unlessin	null	firept	256
	drop	.drop	curse	none	expdestroy	null	257	0
	drop	none	none	ifhave	egg	262	0
	drop	.insert	something	dwarfs	null	null	0	0
	drop	.drop	cup	enclave	trans	null	dtest3	551
	drop	treasure	enclave	null	null	555	0
	drop	sprig	enclave	null	null	4	0
	drop	enclave	enclave	null	null	651	0
	drop	something	enclave	destroy	null	547	0
	drop	anything	container	ifprop	null	1	816
	drop	sheepskin	container	null	null	766	0
	drop	lookingglass	container	ifsnooping	null	767	0
	drop	treasure	none	ifin	null	firept	487	;this and things like it don't cover the oracle
	drop	corpse	coffin	ifprop	null	0	634
	drop	corpse	coffin	null	null	631	0
	drop	something	coffin	null	null	630	0
	drop	anthracite	flame	destroy	null	584	0
	drop	.drop	veil	none	unlessin	null	temple	0
	drop	.drop	veil	none	set	null	2	856
	drop	something	oven	ifprop	second	1	1004
	drop	.insert	keg	oven	null	null	1012	0	-46
	drop	.insert	chip	oven	null	null	1019	0
	drop	.insert	something	oven	null	null	1005	0
	drop	boat	none	ifin	null	sea1	248
	drop	boat	none	ifin	null	sea2	248
	drop	boat	none	ifin	null	sea3	248
	drop	boat	none	ifin	null	sea4	248
	drop	boat	none	ifin	null	sea5	248
	drop	boat	none	ifin	null	sea6	248
	drop	boat	none	ifin	null	sea7	248
	drop	boat	none	ifin	null	sea8	248
	drop	boat	none	ifin	null	sea9	248
	drop	boat	none	ifin	null	sea10	248
	drop	boat	none	ifin	null	sea11	248
	drop	boat	none	ifin	null	sea12	248
	drop	boat	none	ifin	null	sea13	248
	drop	boat	none	ifin	null	sea14	248
	drop	something	person	ifobjis	longsword	1089	0
	drop	.drop	something	person	sendemon	second	51	0
	drop	.drop	something	person	null	null	0	0
	drop	.drop	sword	none	destroy	null	524	0
	drop	.drop	pegasus	none	ifin	null	whroom	0
	drop	.drop	pegasus	none	ifin	null	swamp1	953
	drop	pegasus	none	move	null	whroom	396
	drop	.drop	pottery	none	ifin	null	swamp1	0
	drop	.drop	pottery	none	ifin	null	swamp2	0
	drop	.drop	pottery	none	ifin	null	swamp3	0
	drop	.drop	pottery	none	ifin	null	swamp4	0
	drop	.drop	pottery	none	ifin	null	swamp5	0
	drop	.drop	pottery	none	ifin	null	swamp6	0
	drop	.drop	pottery	none	ifin	null	swamp8	0
	drop	.drop	pottery	none	ifin	null	swamp9	0
	drop	.drop	pottery	none	ifin	null	swampa	0
	drop	.drop	pottery	none	ifin	null	swampb	0
	drop	.drop	pottery	none	ifin	null	swampc	0
	drop	.drop	pottery	none	ifin	null	swampd	0
	drop	pottery	none	destroy	null	442	0
	drop	.drop	china	none	ifin	null	swamp1	0
	drop	.drop	china	none	ifin	null	swamp2	0
	drop	.drop	china	none	ifin	null	swamp3	0
	drop	.drop	china	none	ifin	null	swamp4	0
	drop	.drop	china	none	ifin	null	swamp5	0
	drop	.drop	china	none	ifin	null	swamp6	0
	drop	.drop	china	none	ifin	null	swamp8	0
	drop	.drop	china	none	ifin	null	swamp9	0
	drop	.drop	china	none	ifin	null	swampa	0
	drop	.drop	china	none	ifin	null	swampb	0
	drop	.drop	china	none	ifin	null	swampc	0
	drop	.drop	china	none	ifin	null	swampd	0
	drop	china	none	destroy	null	655	0
	drop	.drop	flower	headstone	ifprop	second	7	1076
	drop	.drop	flower	headstone	null	null	902	0
	drop	.drop	flower	h2o	null	null	903	0
	drop	.drop	flower	torrent	null	null	903	0
	drop	flower	rum	destroy	null	904	0
	drop	flower	liquid	destroy	null	904	0
	drop	flower	medication	destroy	null	904	0
	drop	flower	lake	destroy	null	904	0
	drop	flower	man	null	null	900	0
	drop	flower	woman	null	null	901	0
	drop	wretch	victuals	inc	potatoes	167	747
	drop	victuals	wretch	inc	potatoes	167	747
	drop	wretch	something	null	null	119	0
	drop	something	wretch	null	null	119	0
	drop	.drop	flower	china	destroy	second	905	0
	drop	.drop	bird	none	ifprop	null	1	0
	drop	bird	none	ifin	null	nest	413
	drop	bird	none	ifin	null	firept	414
	drop	bird	none	ifin	null	swamp1	415
	drop	bird	none	ifin	null	swamp2	415
	drop	bird	none	ifin	null	swamp3	415
	drop	bird	none	ifin	null	swamp4	415
	drop	bird	none	ifin	null	swamp5	415
	drop	bird	none	ifin	null	swamp6	415
	drop	bird	none	ifin	null	swamp8	415
	drop	bird	none	ifin	null	swamp9	415
	drop	bird	none	ifin	null	swampa	415
	drop	bird	none	ifin	null	swampb	415
	drop	bird	none	ifin	null	swampc	415
	drop	bird	none	ifin	null	swampd	415
	drop	.drop	birdofprey	none	ifin	null	nest	1107	-71
	drop	.provoke	birdofprey	none	ifin	null	firept	0
	drop	.drop	onyx	none	ifin	null	maze1	417
	drop	.drop	onyx	none	ifin	null	maze2	418
	drop	.drop	onyx	none	ifin	null	maze3	419
	drop	.drop	onyx	none	ifin	null	maze4	420
	drop	.drop	onyx	none	ifin	null	maze5	421
	drop	.drop	onyx	none	ifin	null	maze6	422
	drop	.drop	onyx	none	ifin	null	maze7	423
	drop	.drop	onyx	none	ifin	null	maze8	424
	drop	.drop	onyx	none	ifin	null	maze9	425
	drop	.drop	onyx	none	ifin	null	maze10	426
	drop	.drop	onyx	none	ifin	null	swamp1	807	;other swamps too if you like
	drop	.drop	onyx	none	null	null	416	0
	drop	.drop	bangle	none	togglesex	null	331	332
	drop	.drop	ball	none	inc	null	281	282
	drop	.drop	money	spray	null	null	1097	0
	drop	.drop	something	spray	null	null	1098	0
	drop	torch	lavatory	incmove	null	bwfall	827
	drop	something	lavatory	move	null	bwfall	827
	drop	torch	stream	incmove	null	bwfall	835
	drop	something	stream	move	null	bwfall	835
	drop	something	height	delaymove	null	beach	12	-10
	drop	.drop	pickaxe	gateway	dec	second	715	0	716
	drop	bird	sink	null	null	427	0
	drop	bird	none	ifin	null	bbath	427
	drop	.drop	ice	none	ifin	null	pond1	1078
	drop	.drop	ice	lake	destroydec	pool	138	4
	drop	.drop	ice	h2o	null	null	1078	0
	drop	keg	flame	destroytrans	null	dead19	0
	drop	.drop	bunny	warren	ifprop	null	1	315
	drop	.drop	bunny	warren	ifprop	null	2	568
	drop	bunny	warren	expmove	null	lgrm	311
	drop	.drop	bunny	none	unlessin	null	swamp1	0
	drop	bunny	none	destroy	null	345	0
	drop	.drop	tub	none	ifprop	null	1	64
	drop	.drop	tub	none	ifinc	null	level	62
	drop	.drop	tub	none	unlessinc	null	mudrm	61
	drop	.drop	tub	none	swap	mud	63	64
	drop	lookingglass	none	ifsnooping	null	449	0
	drop	none	none	ifin	null	vert	73
	drop	.drop	none	none	ifin	null	firept	240
	drop	.drop	nut	none	unlessin	null	sqroom	0
	drop	.drop	nut	none	exp	null	350	533
	drop	treasure	none	ifgot	horse	954	0
	drop	.drop	none	onledge	unlessgot	emerald	0	0
	drop	something	duct	destroy	null	726	0
	drop	.drop	clanger	none	null	null	929	0
	drop	none	onledge	move	emerald	bldg	723	;NB move expects an objct, ie it ignores the fn. parameter
	drop	.drop	none	none	unlessin	null	laddrm	0
	drop	none	none	move	null	uhut	207
	turn	wheel	none	ifpropdec	flood	1	731
	turn	wheel	none	ifdisenable	null	5	731
	turn	wheel	none	null	null	729	0	730	-5
	re	none	none	unlessin	null	mosolm	4
	re	none	none	ifprop	tomb1	0	625
	re	none	none	set	tomb1	0	617
	dundee	none	none	unlessin	null	mosolm	4
	dundee	none	none	ifprop	tomb2	0	626
	dundee	none	none	set	tomb2	0	618
	432	none	none	unlessin	null	mosolm	4
	432	none	none	ifprop	tomb3	0	627
	432	none	none	set	tomb3	0	619
	cqywri	none	none	unlessin	null	mosolm	4
	cqywri	none	none	ifprop	tomb4	0	628
	cqywri	none	none	set	tomb4	0	620
	eb	none	none	unlessin	null	mosolm	4
	eb	none	none	ifprop	tomb5	0	635
	eb	none	none	set	tomb5	0	636
	1152921504606846976	none	none	unlessin	null	mosolm	4
	1152921504606846976	none	none	ifprop	tomb6	0	652
	1152921504606846976	none	none	set	tomb6	0	653
	curses	none	none	null	null	776	0
	summon	.flush	none	none	unlessgot	horn	691	0	-50
	summon	none	none	unlesslevel	null	4	692
	summon	none	none	ifprop	horn	1	694
	summon	.summon	none	none	inc	horn	693	0	698
	blow	trumpet	none	ifin	null	bstand	794	;could combine BLOW and PLAY?
	blow	trumpet	none	unlessin	null	revrm	695
	blow	trumpet	none	dec	crack	757	758	759
	blow	shell	none	ifin	null	bstand	794
	blow	shell	none	unlessin	null	revrm	74
	blow	shell	none	dec	crack	75	76	697
	blow	none	vermin	ifgot	flute	1074	0
	blow	recorder	none	ifin	null	bstand	1070
	blow	recorder	none	transhere	rat	1071	1072	1073
	snoop	none	none	unlessgot	mirror	445	0
	snoop	none	none	ifprop	mirror	1	4
	snoop	none	none	unlesslevel	null	8	452
	snoop	.snoop	none	none	null	null	446	0
	l	lookingglass	none	ifinvis	null	1	1085
	l	lookingglass	none	null	null	450	0
	l	bedclothes	none	create	potty	878	663
	l	none	none	ifenabled	null	8	1077
	l	none	none	ifin	null	dtest1	549
	l	none	none	ifin	null	dtest2	550
	l	none	none	ifin	null	doomrm	732
	l	.look	none	parachute	ifprop	null	0	0
	l	.look	none	height	null	null	378	0
	make	.flush	none	none	unlessgot	amulet	454	0
	make	.flush	none	none	unlesslevel	null	7	455
	make	.make	none	none	destroy	amulet	456	0
	where	none	none	unlessgot	oracle	457	0
	where	none	none	ifprop	oracle	0	458
	where	none	none	unlesslevel	null	6	459
	where	.where	none	none	dec	oracle	0	0
	blast	access	cannon	ifprop	gun	2	277
	blast	access	cannon	ifprop	gun	1	278
	blast	access	cannon	destroyset	gun	2	279	700
	blast	cannon	none	ifprop	null	2	277
	blast	cannon	none	ifprop	null	1	278
	blast	cannon	access	setdestroy	second	2	279	700
	blast	cannon	none	set	null	2	303	700
	blast	access	keg	ifprop	powder	1	250
	blast	access	keg	destroydestroy	powder	251	0	701
	blast	something	keg	ifzero	powder	252	253
	blast	none	none	unlessgot	wand	229	0
	blast	none	none	unlesslevel	null	6	243
	blast	none	none	ifgot	longsword	1032	0
	blast	none	stone	destroy	wand	228	0
	blast	person	none	hurt	null	20	0
	blast	monster	none	ifprop	null	2	263
	blast	monster	none	set	null	2	149	-61
	blast	wall	none	null	null	439	0
	blast	guardian	none	transwhere	dwarf	992	4
	blast	.sleep 	haunt	none	destroy	wand	624	0
	blast	.sleep	tombs	none	destroy	wand	624	0
	blast	marble	none	dead	null	1046	0
	blast	fairy	none	incdestroy	null	154	4	-61
	blast	hound	none	destroy	wand	232	0
	blast	wood	none	expdestroy	null	77	0	-61
	blast	arachnid	none	expdestroy	null	946	0	-61
	blast	cord	none	destroy	null	947	0	-61
	blast	wretch	none	expdestroy	null	78	0	-61
	blast	dwarfs	none	unlessprop	null	0	1015
	blast	dwarfs	none	expdestroy	null	786	0	-61
	blast	trunk	none	ifprop	null	0	1082
	blast	trunk	none	set	null	0	87	-61
	blast	signpost	none	expdestroy	null	922	0	-61
	blast	beast	none	destroy	null	237	0	-61
	blast	nanny	none	destroy	null	672	0	-61
	blast	goblin	none	expdestroy	null	293	0	-61
	blast	enemy	none	expdestroy	null	323	0	-61
	blast	fish	none	expdestroy	null	817	0	-61
	blast	birdofprey	none	expdestroy	null	1109	0	-61
	blast	lizard	none	zonk	null	787	0
	blast	familiar	none	expdestroy	null	966	0	-61
	blast	serpent	none	expdestroy	null	972	0	-61
	blast	sliding	none	destroydestroy	magbar	300	0	-61
	blast	access	none	ifin	null	sorcrm	967
	blast	access	none	ifin	null	downps	967
	blast	access	none	ifin	null	cannrm	4
	blast	access	none	destroy	null	127	0	-61
	blast	oneway	none	destroy	null	784	0
	blast	drawbridge	none	destroytrans	null	<srock2	srock3>	238	-61
	blast	iron	none	destroytrans	null	<cupd2	wrdbe>	239	-61
	blast	none	none	unlessin	null	cannrm	4
	blast	none	none	trans	null	<sfrst1	swamp1>	284
	roll	rug	none	inc	null	216	217
	unroll	rug	none	dec	null	218	219
	open	oven	none	dec	null	1006	1007
	open	trapdoor	none	null	null	1033	0
	open	access	none	ifin	null	cannrm	283
	open	access	none	ifin	null	downps	349
	open	access	none	ifin	null	gob4	287
	open	case	none	null	null	350	0
	open	parachute	none	dec	null	107	107
	open	container	none	ifobjis	pot	808	0
	open	charm	none	unlesshave	broadsword	541	0
	open	charm	none	unlesshave	sickle	542	0
	open	charm	none	unlesshave	chalice	543	0
	open	charm	none	unlesshave	mistletoe	544	0
	open	charm	none	null	null	545	0
	open	haunt	none	ifin	null	mosolm	611
	open	haunt	triumph	null	null	1002	0
	open	haunt	none	null	null	79	0
	open	infection	none	dead	null	1047	0
	open	none	goblin	null	null	292	0
	open	none	enemy	null	null	324	0
	open	veil	none	ifprop	null	2	224
	open	veil	none	dec	null	850	852
	open	sliding	none	ifprop	null	0	296
	open	sliding	none	unlessin	null	spanel	294
	open	sliding	none	swap	magbar	298	298
	open	slate	none	ifzero	null	553	538
	open	iron	2	dec	null	80	81
	open	iron	none	null	null	84	0
	open	case	2	dec	null	351	352
	open	none	oneway	ifprop	cupboard	0	165
	open	none	ladder	null	null	162	0
	open	drawbridge	2	dec	null	202	203
	open	drawbridge	none	null	null	204	0
	open	none	oneway	swap	sdoor	161	4
	open	access	bone	ifprop	null	2	656
	open	tombs	none	null	null	611	0
	open	coffin	none	ifprop	null	3	614
	open	coffin	none	ifpropinc	null	2	629
	open	coffin	none	setfloat	body	3	613
	open	rug	none	dec	null	218	219
	open	wheel	none	ifprop	flood	1	951
	open	wheel	none	ifenabled	null	5	951
	open	wheel	none	null	null	729	0	730	-5
	open	gateway	pickaxe	dec	null	1017	1018
	open	gateway	none	ifzero	null	1018	1024
	close	oven	none	inc	null	1008	1009
	close	trapdoor	none	null	null	1033	0
	close	gateway	none	inc	null	998	999
	close	access	none	ifin	null	cannrm	283
	close	container	none	ifobjis	pot	808	0
	close	veil	none	ifprop	null	2	224
	close	veil	none	ifprop	null	1	853
	close	veil	none	set	null	1	851	-7
	close	sliding	none	ifprop	null	1	297
	close	sliding	none	unlessin	null	spanel	294
	close	sliding	none	swap	magbar	299	299
	close	slate	none	ifzero	null	538	554
	close	iron	2	inc	null	82	83
	close	iron	none	null	null	84	0
	close	case	2	inc	null	353	354
	close	case	none	null	null	350	0
	close	drawbridge	none	inc	null	205	206
	close	none	oneway	ifprop	cupboard	1	166
	close	none	oneway	swap	sdoor	163	4
	close	access	none	ifprop	null	2	187
	close	tombs	none	null	null	611	0
	close	coffin	none	ifprop	null	0	616
	close	coffin	none	ifprop	null	2	616
	close	coffin	none	set	null	2	615
	close	parachute	none	ifin	null	fallin	894
	close	parachute	none	inc	null	108	108
	close	haunt	none	ifin	null	mosolm	611
	close	haunt	none	inc	null	598	4
	close	wheel	none	ifpropdec	flood	1	731
	close	wheel	none	ifdisenable	null	5	731
	close	wheel	none	null	null	952	0
	write	none	none	unlessgot	quill	244	0
	write	none	none	ifgot	scroll	309	0
	write	none	none	ifgot	libram	461	0
	write	book	none	writein	null	246	0	-48
	sick	none	none	ifdisenable	null	8	871
	fix	none	none	ifhave	egg	832	0
	fix	signpost	none	null	null	925	0
	fix	torch	lavatory	incmove	null	bwfall	827
	fix	something	lavatory	move	null	bwfall	827
	fix	torch	stream	incmove	null	bwfall	835
	fix	something	stream	move	null	bwfall	835
	fix	.drop	cup	enclave	trans	null	dtest3	551
	fix	treasure	enclave	null	null	555	0
	fix	sprig	enclave	null	null	4	0
	fix	enclave	enclave	null	null	651	0
	fix	something	enclave	destroy	null	547	0
	fix	torch	time	ifprop	sundial	0	386
	fix	torch	time	ifprop	null	0	387
	fix	torch	time	destroydec	sundial	388	0
	fix	magic	time	null	null	380	0
	fix	pointer	time	null	null	806	0
	fix	flower	time	null	null	906	0
	fix	treasure	time	null	null	440	0
	fix	bird	sink	null	null	427	0
	fix	keg	cannon	ifprop	null	1	274
	fix	keg	cannon	destroydec	gun	275	0
	fix	ball	cannon	ifprop	gun	2	280
	fix	ball	cannon	destroydec	gun	276	0
	fix	head	space	unlessin	null	hut	329
	fix	head	space	ifprop	null	1	192
	fix	ram	space	ifin	null	hut	570
	fix	triumph	space	null	null	1003	0
	fix	.drop	head	space	swap	tdoor	191	0
	fix	.insert	veil	container	null	null	0	0
	fix	veil	none	unlessin	null	temple	854
	fix	veil	none	unlessprop	null	2	855
	fix	.drop	veil	none	set	null	0	856
	fix	something	oven	ifprop	second	1	1004
	fix	.insert	keg	oven	null	null	1012	0	-46
	fix	.insert	chip	oven	null	null	1019	0
	fix	.insert	something	oven	null	null	1005	0
	fix	fuse	keg	destroydec	powder	254	0
	fix	fuse	lantern	ifprop	second	0	910
	fix	fuse	lantern	destroyset	lamp	1	911	-22
	fix	brass	bone	ifprop	null	2	516
	fix	bone	brass	ifprop	second	2	516
	fix	brass	bone	incdestroy	fossil	227	0
	fix	bone	brass	destroyinc	ring	227	0
	fix	.drop	bunny	warren	ifprop	null	1	315
	fix	bunny	warren	expmove	null	lgrm	311
	fix	anything	container	ifprop	null	1	816
	fix	sheepskin	container	null	null	766	0
	fix	lookingglass	container	ifsnooping	null	767	0
	fix	.drop	flower	headstone	ifprop	second	7	1076
	fix	.drop	flower	headstone	null	null	902	0
	fix	.drop	flower	h2o	null	null	903	0
	fix	.drop	flower	torrent	null	null	903	0
	fix	flower	lake	destroy	null	904	0
	fix	flower	liquid	destroy	null	904	0
	fix	flower	rum	destroy	null	904	0
	fix	flower	medication	destroy	null	904	0
	fix	flower	china	destroy	second	905	0
	fix	.drop	money	spray	null	null	1097	0
	fix	.drop	something	spray	null	null	1098	0
	fix	killer	rock	ifprop	null	1	1029
	fix	.drop	killer	rock	set	null	1	1030
	fix	.provoke	birdofprey	container	null	null	1106	0
	fix	bird	container	unlessprop	null	1	768
	fix	fairy	container	null	null	769	0
	fix	pottery	container	null	null	770	0
	fix	china	container	null	null	770	0
	fix	boat	container	null	null	772	0
	fix	nut	container	null	null	773	0
	fix	sprig	container	null	null	774	0
	fix	parachute	container	ifprop	null	0	815
	fix	container	bedclothes	unlessobjis	potty	948	0
	fix	container	bedclothes	destroy	null	950	0
	meditate	.sleep	none	none	ifin	null	chambr	993	-44
	meditate	.sleep	none	none	ifin	null	hchamb	993	-45
	meditate	none	mpoint	trans	null	<paddck	rail2>	997
	meditate	none	none	unlessin	null	shrine	994
	meditate	none	none	unlessdisenable	null	44	995
	meditate	none	none	unlessdisenable	null	45	995
	meditate	none	none	trans	null	osanct	996
	go	.go	none	none	iflevel	null	10	0	;let berserk wizards, too
	go	none	dwarfs	ifprop	null	3	1014
	go	none	dwarfs	ifprop	null	2	1091
	go	none	enemy	null	null	676	0
	back	.back	none	none	iflevel	null	10	0	;let berserk wizards, too
	back	none	dwarfs	ifprop	null	3	1014
	back	none	dwarfs	ifprop	null	2	1091
	back	none	enemy	null	null	676	0
	move	.go	none	none	iflevel	null	10	0
	move	none	dwarfs	ifprop	null	3	1014
	move	none	enemy	null	null	676	0
	sleep	none	none	ifin	null	slidin	1096
	sleep	none	none	ifin	null	fallin	1096
	value	antidote	none	null	null	1051	1051
	value	ivory	none	null	null	1051	1051
@txtbtm
	shake	wave
	rap	tap
	knock	tap
	poke	tap
	witches	wizards
	zap	blast
	shoot	blast
	tie	tether
	untie	untether
	free	untether
	loose	untether
	sound	toll
	yank	pull
	tug	pull
	sniff	smell
	snort	smell
	hone	sharpen
	whittle	sharpen
	pray	worship
	mount	ride
	sound	blow
	hoot	blow
	fart	blow
	honk	blow
	clean	bath
	wash	bath
	hint	hints
;;vocabulary demon actions
action	$play	.unfreeze	none	none	destroy	violin	839	0
	$smash	.vis	none	none	unlessin	null	rost	0
	$smash	.vis	none	none	dec	slab	539	0
	$flood	none	none	incsend	flood	dead41	0
	$trans	none	none	ifin	null	cavein	0
	$trans	none	none	trans	null	cavein	858
	$drunk	none	none	ifasleep	null	1	0	-8
	$drunk	.sleep	none	none	ifr	null	40	870	-8
	$drunk	none	none	ifr	null	66	877	-9
	$drunk	.sleep	none	none	ifr	null	50	870
	$drunk	none	none	sendmess	null	883	884	-11
	$drunk1	.back	none	none	null	null	0	0	-8
	$drunk2	none	none	ifr	null	10	0	-8
	$drunk2	none	none	sendmess	null	883	884	-11
	$message	none	none	null	null	880	0
	$plonk	none	none	null	null	881	0	881
	$fall	none	none	trans	null	fallin	890	-14
	$land	none	none	unlessin	null	fallin	0
	$land	none	none	trans	null	beach	891
	$dragon	none	none	ifdead	dragon	0	0
	$dragon	none	none	expdestroy	dragon	896	896	896
	$exp	none	none	exp	null	1	0
	$check	none	none	enable	null	18	0
	$out	none	none	ifgot	lamp	909	0	-20
	$out	none	none	set	lamp	2	0
	$out1	none	none	set	lamp	2	0
	$suspend	none	none	suspend	null	18	0
	$clear	none	none	ifdisenable	null	18	0
	$bump	none	none	ifin	null	slidin	916	-25
	$emerge	none	none	unlessin	null	slidin	0
	$emerge	none	none	trans	null	uland3	915
	$move	none	none	set	sptrap	0	0
	$spider	.provoke	something	none	ifdestroyed	web	0	0
	$spider	none	none	dead	null	1048	0
	$devour	none	vermin	destroy	null	977	0
	$fdevour	none	vermin	destroy	null	1104	0
	$fdevour	none	bird	unlessprop	null	0	0
	$fdevour	none	bird	destroy	null	1105	0
	$fdevour	none	bunny	ifprop	null	1	0
	$fdevour	none	bunny	set	null	1	1108
	$burn	none	none	ifprop	stove	0	0
	$burn	none	none	destroy	stove	1013	0	1013
	$zzz	none	none	ifin	null	slidin	1031
	$zzz	none	none	ifin	null	fallin	1031
	$zzz	.sleep	none	none	null	null	171	0
	$written	none	none	expdestroy	quill	0	0
	$uranium	none	none	unlessgot	uranium	0	0
	$uranium	none	none	ifasleep	null	1	0	-51
	$uranium	none	none	losestamina	null	2	1066	-51
	$ratty	none	none	ifasleep	null	1	0
	$ratty	none	none	ifwiz	null	0	0
	$ratty	none	none	ifgot	cat	0	0
	$ratty	none	none	ifgot	flute	0	0
	$ratty	.provoke	something	none	ifrstas	null	0	0	-4
	$blast	none	none	ifprop	wandvolume	1	0	702
	$arch1	none	none	ifinvis	null	1	0
	$arch1	none	none	ifenabled	null	63	0
	$arch1	.invis	none	none	null	null	0	0	-63
	$arch2	none	none	ifinvis	null	0	0
	$arch2	.vis	none	none	null	null	0	0
	$arch3	none	none	trans	null	woe2	0	-62
	$arch4	none	none	trans	null	woe1	0	-62
	$dprovoke	.vis	none	none	ifinvis	null	1	0
	$dprovoke	none	none	ifasleep	null	1	0
	$dprovoke	.provoke	something	none	null	null	0	0	-4
	$fprovoke	none	none	ifinvis	null	1	0
	$fprovoke	none	none	ifwiz	null	0	0
	$fprovoke	none	none	ifgot	gauntlet	0	0
	$fprovoke	.provoke	something	none	null	null	0	0	-4
	$reseagle	none	none	resetdest	eagle	200	0
@txtdac
*demons	71
@txtdmn
2	$play	stradivarius	none	60	always
5	$flood	none	none	15	global
7	$trans	none	none	15
8	$drunk	none	none	30-60
9	$drunk1	none	none	-1
10	$message	none	none	-1
11	$drunk2	none	none	2
12	$plonk	none	none	8
13	$fall	none	none	-1
14	$land	none	none	8
;don't make $dragon either global or always - i want a full 20 minutes, and
;points to be accredited.
15	$dragon	none	none	1200-1800
17	$exp	none	none	-1
18	$out	none	none	1800	global
19	$check	none	none	-1
20	$out1	none	none	-1
21	$suspend	none	none	-1
22	$clear	none	none	-1
24	$bump	none	none	10
25	$emerge	none	none	10-20
26	$spider	whichever	none	-1
27	$move	none	none	10	global
43	$devour	none	none	-1	global
;so just about possible to meditate in 2 places at once
44	$null	none	none	15	global
45	$null	none	none	15	global
46	$burn	none	none	900	global
47	$zzz	none	none	-1
48	$written	none	none	-1
51	$uranium	none	none	10-20
60	$ratty	whichever	none	-1
61	$blast	none	none	-1
62	$arch1	none	none	-1
63	$arch2	none	none	30-450
64	$arch3	none	none	-1
65	$arch4	none	none	-1
66	$dprovoke	whichever	none	-1
67	$fdevour	none	none	-1	global
;no. 68 is spare
69	$fprovoke	whichever	none	-1
;no. 70 is spare
71	$reseagle	none	none	-1	global
*objects
chain	hotpas	0	0	0
0	The links of a valuable gold chain glister in front of you.
pin	store	0	0	0
0	A shiny new pin lies at your feet!
almanac	store	0	0	1
0	?
bouquet	store	0	0	0
0	A beautiful bouquet of fragrant flowers has been placed at your feet.
sphere	nbank	0	2	1
0	A platinum-plated sphere rests on the bank.
1	A platinum-plated sphere is here.
2	An iron ball is here.
web	ruin	ruin	0	1	1
0	There is a thick, silver-looking cord here, coated in a strange,
	clear substance.
1	You are trapped in an enormous spider's web!
spider	20	0	26	splair	0	0	0	110	noget
0	An enormous spider stands before you!
baton	bstand	0	0	1
0	A conductor's baton lies on the floor.
bow	<study	lounge	attic>	0	0	1
0	A violin bow has been put here.
violin	attic	0	1	0
0	A priceless violin is at your feet.
bolt	rail2	1	1	0
0	There is a golden bolt here.
1	A golden bolt has been hammered into one of the railway sleepers.
disc	cavein	0	0	0
0	A golden disc is here, bearing the design of a red eye.
coal	bunker	0	0	0
0	A polished piece of carved anthracite has been left here.
wandvolume	store	0	1	2	noget	noit
0	The wand is on low volume.
1	The wand is on high volume.
toilet	bathrm	0	0	1	noget	noit
toilet	dwbog	0	0	1	noget	noit
river	river1	0	0	1	noget	noit
river	river2	0	0	1	noget	noit
river	river3	0	0	1	noget	noit
river	rapids	0	0	1	noget	noit
river	nbank	0	0	1	noget	noit
cliff	wfall	0	0	1	noget	noit
cliff	clifff	0	0	1	noget	noit
cliff	track1	0	0	1	noget	noit
cliff	clffst	0	0	1	noget	noit
cliff	nfrst4	0	0	1	noget	noit
cliff	sfrst1	0	0	1	noget	noit
basin	bathrm	0	0	1	noit	noget
;what follows means that there's fresh water there...
water	river1	0	0	1	noget	noit
water	river2	0	0	1	noget	noit
water	river3	0	0	1	noget	noit
water	rapids	0	0	1	noget	noit
water	nbank	0	0	1	noget	noit
water	bbath	0	0	1	noget	noit
water	bathrm	galley	bwfall	fowrm	0	0	1	noget	noit
water	wfall	0	0	1	noget	noit
water	beach2	0	0	1	noget	noit
water	pond1	0	0	1	noget	noit
water	spring	0	0	1	noget	noit
water	main2	0	0	1	noget	noit
water	kitche	0	0	1	noget	noit
water	jetty	0	0	1	noget	noit
trees	forist	0	0	1	noget	noit
trees	ifrst5	0	0	1	noget	noit
trees	clffst	nfrst4	sfrst1	0	0	1	noget	noit
trees	mfrst	fslop1	fslop2	fslop3	ifrst1	ifrst2	ifrst3	ifrst4	ifrst6	dcliff	pines1	pines2	pines3	pines4	pines5	pines6	pines7	wabe	whroom	bbath	gaptrm	lionrm	sett	bstand	nfrst1	nfrst2	nfrst3	sfrst2	efrst1	0	0	1	noget	noit
trees	sqrm	0	0	1	noget	noit
trees	sqroom	0	0	1	noget	noit
trees	ufrst1	0	0	1	noget	noit
trees	ufrst2	0	0	1	noget	noit
trees	ufrst3	0	0	1	noget	noit
trees	ufrst5	0	0	1	noget	noit
arch	woe1	0	0	1	noget	noit
arch	woe2	0	0	1	noget	noit
medpoint	isanct	osanct	0	0	1	noget	noit
squirrels	sqrm	sqroom	0	0	0	noit
slab	rost	1	1	2	noget
0	The slate slab has been swung open, revealing a chamber below.
1	The slate slab obviously conceals something below, but is too heavy
	for you to slide over. It is obviously meant to be used for sacrificing
	human beings...
filling	<ntomb	wtomb	swtomb	setomb	stomb>	0	0	0
0	A golden filling from some unfortunate glints here.
sarcophagus	wtomb	wtomb	0	3	4
0	The sarcophagus is closed.
1	The sarcophagus is open.
2	The sarcophagus is closed.
3	The sarcophagus is open.
body	wtomb	wtomb	0	1	1
1	There is a severely dead body slumped here.
vase	<ntomb	wtomb	swtomb	setomb	stomb>	0	0	0
0	A delicate china vase, with fine jade detail, rests here.
jewels	<ntomb	wtomb	swtomb	setomb	stomb>	0	0	0
0	Some fabulous jewels here make you catch your breath in awe!
sceptre	<ntomb	wtomb	swtomb	setomb	stomb>	0	0	0
0	A magnificent sceptre lies resplendent here!
horn	<ntomb	wtomb	swtomb	setomb	stomb>	0	1	0
0	A mighty hunting horn lies here!
1	A hunting horn lies here.
inscription	mosolm	mosolm	0	0	1	noit
tomb1	mosolm	mosolm	1	1	2	noit
0	The north tomb is open.
1	Written on the north tomb is "lundio edra el ?".
tomb2	mosolm	mosolm	1	1	2	noit
0	The west tomb is open.
1	Written on the west tomb is "315121859=sutton, 33183150=blackpool,
	3361795=leeds, 357383407=?".
tomb3	mosolm	mosolm	1	1	2	noit
0	The south tomb is open.
1	Written on the south tomb is "18 108 945 162 243 405 513 972 135 351 ?".
tomb4	mosolm	mosolm	1	1	2	noit
0	The east tomb is open.
1	On the east tomb is written "tqxxmkhac qi zlnio vtut ny zom sqkbldl wo
	jxnqfhdhj vzonhtt (one word is repeated)".
tomb5	mosolm	mosolm	1	1	2	noit
0	The southeast tomb is open.
1	On the southeast tomb is "ls b sp cl h tcr oc bs ma lg q nhg hp sb wc
	ea na wa ?".
tomb6	mosolm	mosolm	1	1	2	noit
0	The southwest tomb is open.
1	On the southwest tomb is "2 to the power of 60".
locket	brost	0	0	0
0	A charming locket catches the light, near your boots.
niche	dtest2	dtest2	0	0	1	noget
fork	dtest3	0	0	0
0	Placed here is a golden fork of very early design.
starstone	dtreas	0	0	0
0	A loose starstone has fallen here.
topaz	dtreas	0	0	0
0	At your feet is a large topaz.
bloodstone	dtreas	0	0	0
0	To one side, a deep-red bloodstone catches your eye.
amethyst	dtreas	0	0	0
0	Glinting in the light, nearby, is a polished amethyst.
fleece	dtreas	0	0	0
0	Left in a corner is a scented fleece.
clasp	dtreas	0	0	0
0	A silver clasp has been dropped on the ground nearby you.
headband	dtreas	0	0	0
0	A fabulous druidic headband, an inch across and solid gold, makes you
	gasp when you espy it!
skull	dtreas	0	1	1
0	The skull of a ram is on the floor.
1	A valuable ram's skull is on the floor here.
acorn	ifrst3	0	0	1
0	On the ground here lies an acorn.
sickle	<ifrst6	ifrst5>	0	0	0
0	A golden sickle lies untarnished at your feet.
chalice	ifrst6	0	0	0
0	A chalice of extraordinary beauty has been dropped here.
bell	slope3	0	0	0
0	A magnificent bell lies by your feet.
broadsword	<cove	ifrst2	rost>	1	-1	0	bright	nosummon
0	A marvellous broadsword lies shining in front of you!
1	A fearsome broadsword lies in front of you, a marvel to behold!
longsword	sea14	1	1	2	bright	nosummon
0	A murderous, blood-stained longsword lies here.
1	Thrust deep into a rock is a murderous longsword!
granite	sea14	0	0	1	noit	noget
sabre	store	0	0	1
0	A bloodstained, menacing sabre lies at your feet!
rapier	store	0	0	1
0	A lengthy, vicious rapier has been dropped here!
epee	store	0	0	1
0	A dangerous, mean-looking epee has been placed on the ground here!
cutlass	store	0	0	1
0	Lying to one side is a mighty cutlass!
foil	store	0	0	1
0	You espy a springy, well-balanced, yet sturdy foil nearby!
scimitar	store	0	0	1
0	A deadly-sharp scimitar catches the light at your feet!
bat	attic	0	0	0
0	A fine willow cricket bat is propped up here.
toadstool	fring	0	0	1
0	A lone red and white toadstool grows here.
die	guadrm	0	-5	6
0	A die, made of solid ivory, has been rolled here.
1	A die, made of solid ivory, has been rolled here.
2	A die, made of solid ivory, has been rolled here.
3	A die, made of solid ivory, has been rolled here.
4	A die, made of solid ivory, has been rolled here.
5	A die, made of solid ivory, has been rolled here.
mistletoe	lsp1	0	0	1
0	A sprig of mistletoe lies here.
stethoscope	sorcrm	0	0	0
0	On the ground lies a stethoscope.
mirror	sorcrm	0	1	1
0	There is a lookingglass here. On the back is written the following:
	"If you have sufficient magical power, you may WATCH people. Break the
	 mirror to stop."
1	There is a solid silver lookingglass here.
amulet	sorcrm	0	0	0
0	An ancient amulet is here. Upon its reverse is inscribed: "with me,
	strong warlocks may FORCE people to do things."
oracle	sorcrm	7	7	0
7	An oracle here speaks: "You may ask me WHERE things are, seven times".
6	An oracle here speaks: "You may ask me WHERE things are, six times".
5	An oracle here speaks: "You may ask me WHERE things are, five times".
4	An oracle here speaks: "You may ask me WHERE things are, four times".
3	An oracle here speaks: "You may ask me WHERE things are, thrice".
2	An oracle here speaks: "You may ask me WHERE things are, twice."
1	An oracle here speaks: "You may ask me WHERE things are, once."
0	An oracle here speaks: "I shall answer no more."
banger	xmasbx	0	0	0
0	A firework marked "banger" lies at your feet.
banger	xmasbx	0	0	0
0	%banger
banger	xmasbx	0	0	0
0	%banger
banger	xmasbx	0	0	0
0	%banger
rocket	xmasbx	0	0	0
0	A rocket (firework variety) has been discarded here.
rocket	xmasbx	0	0	0
0	%rocket
rocket	xmasbx	0	0	0
0	%rocket
rocket	xmasbx	0	0	0
0	%rocket
sparkler	xmasbx	1	1	1	bright
0	There is a sparkling sparkler here, its pretty, glittering flecks of
	light cascading around it!
1	There is an unlit sparkler here.
sparkler	xmasbx	1	1	1	bright
0	%sparkler
1	%sparkler
sparkler	xmasbx	1	1	1	bright
0	%sparkler
1	%sparkler
sparkler	xmasbx	1	1	1	bright
0	%sparkler
1	%sparkler
sparkler	xmasbx	1	1	1	bright
0	%sparkler
1	%sparkler
sparkler	xmasbx	1	1	1	bright
0	%sparkler
1	%sparkler
sparkler	xmasbx	1	1	1	bright
0	%sparkler
1	%sparkler
sparkler	xmasbx	1	1	1	bright
0	%sparkler
1	%sparkler
sparkler	xmasbx	1	1	1	bright
0	%sparkler
1	%sparkler
sparkler	xmasbx	1	1	1	bright
0	%sparkler
1	%sparkler
sparkler	xmasbx	1	1	1	bright
0	%sparkler
1	%sparkler
holly	xmasbx	0	0	0
0	A branch of festive holly is not decking the hall here.
xmastree	xmasbx	0	0	0	bright
0	A beautiful Christmas tree is here, decorated in pretty lights and
	baubles.
bell	xmasbx	1	1	1
1	A Christmas bell plays its old familiar carols here.
mousse	xmasbx	0	0	0
0	The heady aroma of a shocking-pink mousse here tempts your palate!
mouse	xmasbx	0	0	0
0	A not-quite-enchanted sugar mouse is here.
candle	xmasbx	0	0	0	bright
0	A candle shines here.
snowman	xmasbx	0	0	0
0	A jolly snowman tries very hard not to melt nearby.
cracker	xmasbx	0	0	0
0	A Christmas cracker lies here, minding its own business.
carolbook	xmasbx	0	0	0
0	There is a Christmas Carol book here, full of Christmas carols (not the
	story). You know the sort of thing I mean, "Once in Royal boughs of
	holly", "I saw three french hens come sailing by", "oh silent night of
	first noel", things like that.
reindeer	20	0	6	xmasbx	0	0	0	bright	noget
0	A sturdy reindeer lumbers past you nearby.
santaclaus	0	0	6	xmasbx	0	0	0	noget
0	Ho ho ho, Father Christmas here again, with your Christmas gifts!
mincepies	xmasbx	0	0	0
0	Some delicious mince pies sit sumptiously on the floor, if you like
	mince pies which it happens I don't but never mind, who am I to spoil
	the Season of Goodwill and all that?
plumpudding	xmasbx	0	0	0
0	There is some plum pudding here, with a thumb-hole in it.
turkey	5	0	6	xmasbx	0	0	0	50	noget
0	A turkey in a mad panic flees for its very life here.
sleigh	xmasbx	0	0	0
0	A sleigh without a rosebud on it rests here.
ivy	bbath	0	0	1	noget
snake	25	0	40	rail2	0	0	0	90
0	A viper slithers by your feet...
cat	1	43	0	sorcrm	0	9	9
9	A dead cat has been left here.
8	A mound of sliced and beaten matted fluff before you appears to be a
	still-living cat.
7	Before you you recognise that a pile of red fur is in fact a cat, still
	breathing...
6	A nearly-dead cat bleeds before you. It thinks it's purring but it
	sounds more like a whistle with no pea in it.
5	A bloodied cat lies here, its once black fur matted with red gore.
4	A heavily bloodstained cat is here, coughing up innards as it purrs.
3	A severely cut up cat is here, purring with great difficulty.
2	A decidedly ill cat is here, purring sort of groggily.
1	A rather ruffled black cat is here which doesn't look at all well.
0	A sleek, black cat sits here, purring happily to itself.
cat	store	10	10	0	200
10	A sleek, black cat sits here, purring happily to itself.
rstop	rattun	1	1	2	noit	noget
sptrap	splair	1	1	2	noit	noget
sundial	wabe	1	1	0	noget
0	In the sundial has been fixed a brand as a gnomon.
1	The sundial has no gnomon, so cannot tell the time.
garnet	grotto	0	0	0
0	You notice a curiously-carven piece of garnet by your feet.
lever	grotto	0	0	1	noget
0	Embedded in the east wall is a lever.
chart	capt	0	0	1
0	An ancient chart lies in its frame here.
foot	sett	0	0	0
0	A lucky rabbit's foot is here!
buckle	insett	0	0	0
0	A shiny buckle has somehow found its way here.
apple	gaptrm	0	1	1
0	Growing on the tree is a golden apple!
1	A golden apple lies here, lustrously.
horse	whroom	0	0	0
0	A white, winged stallion stands majestically before you.
gull	0	0	6	beach	0	1	1
0	A seagull flutters about you, aimlessly.
1	A lifelike golden seagull is here!
birdbath	bbath	0	0	1	noget
lion	lionrm	0	0	0
0	An onyx lion has been placed here. Upon its base is the legend: "Drop
	me in the garden of death to learn the path."
pancake	pantry	0	0	0
0	A pancake in a pan lies on the shelf.
runes	downps	0	0	1	noget
runes	sorcrm	0	0	1	noget
crystals	sorcrm	0	0	1
0	Some coloured crystals give off a heavy vapour here.
uranium	face3	0	0	0	bright
0	A strange metal glows uncannily over to one side.
naughty	store	0	0	1	noit
wardrobe	hall	0	0	1	noit	noget
potion	sorcrm	0	1	1
0	A vial of clear green potion has been left here.
1	A vial of cloudy green potion has been left here.
scroll	wrdbe	0	0	1
0	An aged scroll has been placed here.
fur	wrdbe	0	0	0
0	A moth-eaten fur coat lies strewn at your feet.
goat	3	0	6	wdale	1	1	2	110
0	There is a nanny goat here.
1	A nanny goat is tethered here.
rabbit	10	0	6	nhill1	0	1	0
0	A playful rabbit snuffles round your feet.
1	A savagely slaughtered rabbit lies pitifully at your feet.
rabbit	store	2	2	0
2	A playful rabbit snuffles round your feet.
flute	treasc	0	0	0
0	There lies a silver flute by your feet.
gate	entrnc	topcit	1	1	2	noget
0	The gateway is open.
1	The gateway is closed. Upon it is written, "Drop the key on me and I
	shall open".
springwater	spring	0	0	1	noget	noit
dwarf	3	0	6	dwpst1	0	1	0	15	noget	contains	15000	transparent	opened	disguised
0	A stocky dwarf eyes you up and down with suspicion.
1	A dwarf sleeps here.
tin	face1	1	1	0
0	Some useful tin ore lies here.
1	In the face there looks to be some tin ore.
tin	face4	1	1	0
0	%tin
1	%tin
tin	face2	1	1	0
0	%tin
1	%tin
tin	face3	1	1	0
0	%tin
1	%tin
tin	dwarf	0	0	0
0	%tin
tin	sectn	0	0	0
0	%tin
tin	dwstre	0	0	0
0	%tin
tin	ktreas	0	0	0
0	%tin
tin	ktreas	0	0	0
0	%tin
tin	ktreas	0	0	0
0	%tin
tin	ktreas	0	0	0
0	%tin
tin	ktreas	0	0	0
0	%tin
tin	ktreas	0	0	0
0	%tin
tin	ktreas	0	0	0
0	%tin
dwarf	dorm	1	1	0	40	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
0	%dwarf
1	%dwarf
dwarf	dorm	1	1	0	30	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
0	%dwarf
1	%dwarf
dwarf	dorm	1	1	0	50	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
0	%dwarf
1	%dwarf
dwarf	odorm	1	1	0	40	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
0	%dwarf
1	%dwarf
dwarf	odorm	1	1	0	35	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
0	%dwarf
1	%dwarf
dwarf	pdorm	1	1	0	45	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
0	%dwarf
1	%dwarf
dwarf	19	0	6	dwpst2	0	0	0	95	noget	contains	95000	transparent	opened	disguised
0	%dwarf
dwarf	17	0	6	dwpst2	0	0	0	85	noget	contains	85000	transparent	opened	disguised
0	%dwarf
dwarf	13	0	6	dwpst2	0	0	0	65	noget	contains	65000	transparent	opened	disguised
0	%dwarf
dwarf	11	0	6	dwpst2	0	0	0	55	noget	contains	55000	transparent	opened	disguised
0	%dwarf
dwarf	7	0	6	dwpst2	0	0	0	35	noget	contains	35000	transparent	opened	disguised
0	%dwarf
dwarf	5	0	6	dwpst2	0	0	0	25	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
0	%dwarf
dwarf	20	0	6	dwrm3	0	0	0	45	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
0	%dwarf
dwarf	21	0	6	dwrm3	0	0	0	35	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
0	%dwarf
dwarf	22	0	6	dwbog	0	0	0	55	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
0	%dwarf
dwarf	10	0	6	kdorm	0	0	0	10	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
0	A young dwarf is here, smiling happily.
dwarf	11	0	6	kdorm	0	0	0	10	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
0	%dwarf
dwarf	12	0	6	dwrm2	0	0	0	10	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
0	%dwarf
dwarf	13	0	6	dwrm2	0	0	0	11	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
0	A cherry dwarf is here, smiling happily.
dwarf	20	0	6	dwrm2	0	0	0	25	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
0	There is a female dwarf here.
dwarf	21	0	6	dwrm2	0	0	0	25	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
0	%dwarf
dwarf	22	0	6	dwrm2	0	0	0	25	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
0	%dwarf
dwarf	23	0	6	dwrm3	0	0	0	35	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
0	%dwarf
dwarf	24	0	6	pdorm	0	0	0	35	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
0	%dwarf
dwarf	25	0	6	dwcant	0	0	0	35	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
0	%dwarf
dwarf	26	0	6	dwcant	0	0	0	45	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
0	%dwarf
dwarf	27	0	6	dwktch	0	0	0	45	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
0	%dwarf
dwarf	23	0	6	dwrm4	0	0	0	25	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
0	There is an old dwarf here.
dwarf	40	0	6	dwrm4	0	0	0	25	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
0	%dwarf
dwarf	45	0	6	dwrm4	0	0	0	25	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
0	There is an old female dwarf here.
dwarf	50	0	6	dwrm4	0	0	0	20	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
0	There is an old female dwarf here.
dwarf	7	0	6	dwrm4	0	0	0	20	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
0	There is a sprightly old female dwarf here.
dwarf	guard1	3	3	3	50	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
3	A stocky dwarf guard blocks your way.
dwarf	guard1	3	3	3	50	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
3	%dwarf
dwarf	guard1	3	3	3	50	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
3	%dwarf
dwarf	guard2	3	3	3	60	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
3	A hefty dwarf guard blocks your way.
dwarf	guard2	3	3	3	60	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
3	%dwarf
dwarf	guard2	3	3	3	60	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
3	%dwarf
dwarf	guard3	3	3	3	90	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
3	A burly dwarf guard blocks your way.
dwarf	guard3	3	3	3	85	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
3	%dwarf
dwarf	guard3	3	3	3	95	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
3	%dwarf
dwarf	guard4	3	3	3	90	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
3	A surly dwarf guard blocks your way.
dwarf	guard4	3	3	3	90	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
3	%dwarf
dwarf	guard4	3	3	3	90	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
3	%dwarf
dwarf	ktreas	3	3	3	65	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
3	A thickset dwarf guard blocks your way.
dwarf	ktreas	3	3	3	70	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
3	%dwarf
dwarf	ktreas	3	3	3	75	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
3	%dwarf
dwarf	pdorm	1	1	0	30	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
0	There is a female dwarf here.
1	A female dwarf sleeps here.
dwarf	kdorm	1	1	0	10	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
0	A mewling baby dwarf bawls here incessantly. 
1	A baby dwarf sleeps here.
dwarf	kingst	2	2	2	110	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
2	The dwarfen king is here!
dwarf	kqdorm	0	0	0	40	noget	contains	25000	transparent	opened	disguised
0	The dwarfen queen is here!
coin	sidpsg	0	0	0
0	A gold coin lies here, bearing on one side the image of a dwarf, on
	the reverse a picture of a body of water.
ventilator	minor6	0	0	1	noget
;let 'em off from flood in topcit - adds air of mystery...
flood	shaft1	main2	main3	main4	shaft3	main5	main6	main7	dpass1	dpass2	dpass3	dpass4	dpass5	dpass6	sectn	minor1	minor2	face1	crrm	doomrm	minor3	shaft4	tightp	face4	edwrlm	minor7	minor8	face3	peril1	peril2	peril3	peril4	peril5	ledge1	ledge2	ledge3	bldg	dwpst1	ufrst1	panora	befcit	ufrst5	dwpst2	ufrst2	ufrst3	spring	0	1	2	noget	noit
1	The area is flooded with water.
pick	shed	0	0	1
0	A smallish, woodworm-riddled pickaxe has been dropped here.
pick	entrnc	0	0	1
0	%pick
mosaic	dwhall	0	0	0
0	A loose chip of mosaic lies by your feet.
stove	dwktch	1	1	2	bright	noget	contains	11000	disguised
0	A hot stove stands here with its door open.
1	A hot stove stands here with its door closed.
trophy	guard3	0	0	0
0	A war trophy depicting a dwarfen battle scene lies at your feet.
throne	kingrm	0	0	0
0	A gloriously bejewelled throne stands here, majestically.
forge	dwrm3	0	0	1	bright	noget	contains	256000	disguised
0	A mighty forge of glowing coals dominates the centre of the room.
poker	dwrm3	0	0	0
0	There is a finely-worked poker here.
lamp	shed	1	2	3	bright
0	There is a shining safety lamp here.
1	There is an unlit safety lamp here.
2	There is a safety lamp here without a wick.
valve	valvrm	0	0	1	noget
osselesu	sectn	0	0	1	noget	noit
pot	jetty	0	0	1	contains	2000	transparent	opened
0	There is a lobster pot here.
sack	smuggl	0	0	1	contains	5000
0	There is a sack here.
bag	attic	0	1	2	contains	7000	opened
0	A musty old carpet bag is here, open.
1	A musty old carpet bag is here, closed.
potty	bdrm01	0	0	1	-1	contains	1000	transparent	opened
0	There is a potty here.
jet	potty	0	0	0
0	A piece of jet has been secreted here.
coinval	store	0	-1	2	noget
0	Someone tossed a heads.
1	Someone tossed a tails.
off	store	0	0	1	noget
curiosity	store	0	0	1	noget
sesame	store	0	0	1	noget
starstone	ktreas	0	0	0
0	By your feet is a gorgeous starstone.
topaz	ktreas	0	0	0
0	A large topaz lies on the ground nearby.
garnet	ktreas	0	0	0
0	A garnet of unusual beauty lies here.
beads	stun6	0	0	0
0	Some smoked-glass beads are strewn by your feet.
hole	shill1	0	0	1	noget
0	There is a small hole in the ground, about 5 inches across. It bends too
	sharply for you to see anything down it.
gun	cannrm	2	2	3	noget
0	The cannon is primed and loaded.
1	The cannon is primed.
2	The cannon is unloaded and unprimed.
ballview	river3	0	0	0	noit	noget
0	On the opposite bank of the river rests a fabulous platinum-plated
	sphere.
door	cannrm	1	1	2	noget
1	The doorway to the south is shut off by a robust door.
door	kitche	hall	2	2	3
0	The kitchen door is open.
1	The kitchen door is closed.
2	The kitchen door is locked shut.
door	hotpas	cinder	diamnd	2	2	3
0	The strange door is open.
1	The strange door is closed.
2	The strange door is locked shut.
door	temple	antech	1	2	3
0	The crimson door is open.
1	The crimson door is closed.
2	The crimson door is locked shut.
door	guadrm	uland1	2	2	3
0	The oaken door is open.
1	The oaken door is closed.
2	The oaken door is locked shut.
door	guard4	kingrm	2	2	3
0	The oak door is open
1	The oak door is closed.
2	The oak door is locked shut.
door	dwrm3	dorm	2	2	3
0	The heavy door is open.
1	The heavy door is closed.
2	The heavy door is locked shut.
door	shed	platfm	2	2	3
0	The shed door is open.
1	The shed door is closed.
2	The shed door is locked shut.
door	passg1	passg4	2	2	3
0	The door is open.
1	The door is closed.
2	The door is locked shut.
door	sorcrm	downps	store	2	2	3
0	%door
1	%door
2	%door
door	gob1	passg2	2	2	3
0	%door
1	%door
2	%door
door	passg3	passg9	1	2	3
0	%door
1	%door
2	%door
door	gob2	passg5	2	2	3
0	%door
1	%door
2	%door
door	gob3	passg6	2	2	3
0	%door
1	%door
2	%door
door	treasc	gob4	dtest3	2	2	3
0	%door
1	%door
2	%door
door	cellar	bunker	2	2	3
0	%door
1	%door
2	%door
door	gob5	passg8	1	2	3
0	%door
1	%door
2	%door
door	dwstep	dwhall	2	2	3
0	%door
1	%door
2	%door
door	dwfood	lowps1	2	2	3
0	%door
1	%door
2	%door
door	dwstre	lowps2	2	2	3
0	%door
1	%door
2	%door
door	dwktch	dwcant	0	2	3
0	%door
1	%door
2	%door
door	lowps4	dwrm1	1	2	3
0	%door
1	%door
2	%door
door	lowps6	dwrm2	0	2	3
0	%door
1	%door
2	%door
door	odorm	lowps9	2	2	3
0	%door
1	%door
2	%door
door	dwrm4	kdorm	0	2	3
0	%door
1	%door
2	%door
door	guard1	guard2	2	2	3
0	%door
1	%door
2	%door
door	minrm	lowps7	2	2	3
0	%door
1	%door
2	%door
door	guard3	kingst	2	2	3
0	%door
1	%door
2	%door
door	lowps8	ktreas	2	2	3
0	%door
1	%door
2	%door
fountain	fowrm	0	1	0	noget
0	The fountain glows blue with its magical power. Below it, transcribed
	in fiery runes, is the legend "Enter me and know" .
1	The fountain glows yellow.
zombie	20	0	6	store	0	0	0	15
0	A horrifying zombie blocks your way!
zombie	etomb	0	0	0	30
0	%zombie
zombie	20	0	6	store	0	0	0	15
0	%zombie
zombie	40	0	6	store	0	0	0	20
0	%zombie
zombie	40	0	6	store	0	0	0	20
0	%zombie
zombie	60	0	6	store	0	0	0	40
0	%zombie
zombie	zroom	0	0	0	25
0	%zombie
skeleton	20	0	6	fossrm	0	0	0	80
0	An animated skeleton bars your way.
skeleton	500	0	6	store	0	0	0	100
0	%skeleton
rat	0	0	60	bunker	0	0	0	10
0	An evil black rat bares its razor-sharp incisors at you.
rat	0	0	60	bunker	0	0	0	10
0	%rat
rat	0	0	60	bunker	0	0	0	10
0	%rat
rat	0	0	60	bunker	0	0	0	10
0	%rat
rat	0	0	60	bunker	0	0	0	10
0	%rat
rat	0	0	60	bunker	0	0	0	10
0	%rat
rat	0	0	60	bunker	0	0	0	10
0	%rat
rat	0	0	60	bunker	0	0	0	10
0	%rat
rat	0	0	60	bunker	0	0	0	10
0	%rat
rat	0	0	60	bunker	0	0	0	10
0	%rat
rat	0	0	60	bunker	0	0	0	10
0	%rat
rat	0	0	60	bunker	0	0	0	10
0	%rat
rat	0	0	60	bunker	0	0	0	10
0	%rat
rat	0	0	60	cellar	0	0	0	10
0	%rat
rat	0	0	60	cellar	0	0	0	10
0	%rat
rat	0	0	60	cellar	0	0	0	20
0	%rat
rat	0	0	60	bunker	0	0	0	20
0	%rat
rat	0	0	60	bunker	0	0	0	50
0	%rat
rat	0	0	60	bunker	0	0	0	50
0	%rat
rat	1	0	60	cellar	0	0	0	200
0	An enormous, evil black rat bares its razor-sharp incisors at you.
goblins	gob1	1	1	1	20
1	Several evil-looking goblins glare at you madly as you look around.
goblins	gob2	1	1	1	80
1	%goblins
goblins	gob3	1	1	1	20
1	%goblins
goblins	gob4	1	1	1	20
1	%goblins
goblins	gob5	1	1	1	20
1	%goblins
gauntlet	uland3	0	0	0
0	By your feet lies a studded leather gauntlet.
eagle	0	67	69	spring	0	0	0	200
0	Above, watching you, hovers a large, golden eagle.
magbar	ewstep	0	1	2	noit	noget
brick	altar	0	1	2	noit	noget
brick	crypt	0	1	2	noit	noget
plate	treasc	0	0	0
0	A solid gold plate lies untarnished here.
bracelet	treasc	0	0	0
0	A bejewelled bracelet sparkles at your feet.
toad	pond1	0	0	1
0	A bloated toad croaks incessantly by the side of the water.
prince	pond1	0	0	0	-1	noget
0	A handsome prince is here, smiling charmingly.
beauty	crypt	0	0	0	100	noget
0	A sleeping beauty is lying entrancingly on the marble slab.
panel	spanel	diagps	bluerm	1	1	2
0	The sliding panel is raised.
1	The sliding panel is lowered.
kipper	pantry	0	0	0
0	An aging kipper lies to one side.
sapphire	bluerm	0	0	0
0	A deep blue sapphire attracts your gaze nearby.
ornament	bluerm	0	0	0
0	An ornament of Wedgewood pottery lies here.
ogre	oglair	0	2	3	noget
0	The ogre is here, with a large club beside him!
1	The ogre is here, chewing happily at a rotting leg.
2	A dead ogre lies mangled up nearby.
earrings	crow	0	0	0
0	The golden earrings of some forgotten pirate lie here.
egg	nest	0	0	0
0	A golden egg is here, hallmarked with the sign of a flame.
effigy	woe2	0	0	0
0	There lies a fine, sandstone effigy here.
silk	hold	0	0	0
0	Lying on the floor is some fine silk.
string	poop	0	0	1
0	A strand of worn rope has been dropped here.
logbook	capt	0	0	1	noget
0	?
libram	study	0	1	1
0	On the bookcase lies a single tome: "Articles of magic".
1	There is a heavy libram here, entitled "Articles of magic".
magazine	attic	0	0	0
0	You find yourself almost standing on an ancient, faded copy of the
	magazine "Micro Adventurer".
powder	proom	1	1	2
0	A keg of dry gunpowder is here with a fuse fixed firmly to it.
1	A keg of dry gunpowder is dangerously nearby.
raft	hold	0	0	1
0	A raft, large enough to carry one person, has been left here.
coracle	inlet	0	0	1
0	A sailable coracle large enough for one has been beached (?) here.
quill	capt	0	0	0
0	An inky quill-pen has been left here.
diamond	diamnd	0	0	0
0	A diamond weighing about an ounce is glinting here!
leprechaun	leprm	0	1	1
0	An impudent leprechaun is sitting here.
1	A sulking leprechaun is complaining here.
gold	leprm	0	0	0
0	A crock of gold has been put here!
grate	smuggl	fortun	1	1	2
0	The iron grate is slid open.
1	The iron grate is slid closed.
doubloons	sack	0	0	0
0	A pile of doubloons glitters here!
pieces	smuggl	0	0	0
0	Some pieces of eight lie scattered around you.
bottle	smuggl	1	1	0
0	There is an empty bottle here.
1	There is a bottle of rum here.
wafer	galley	0	0	1
0	A wafer biscuit lies here.
wafer	store	0	0	1
0	%wafer
wafer	store	0	0	1
0	%wafer
wafer	dwktch	0	0	1
0	A wafer biscuit of dwarfen make has been dropped on the floor.
wafer	guard4	0	0	1
0	%wafer
wafer	dwcant	0	0	1
0	By your feet lies an aged, yet edible, wafer biscuit.
wafer	dwfood	0	0	1
0	%wafer
button	ledge3	0	0	1	noget
0	A reset button is embedded in the wall.
groats	kitche	1	1	0
0	Some golden coins lie here!
1	Some worthless, dirtied groats have been dropped here.
crown	swamp7	0	0	0
0	Gleaming in front of you is a magnificent crown!
crown	store	0	0	1
0	Gleaming in front of you is a magnificent crown!
statue	tombrm	0	-4	4
0	There is a golden statue here with red eyes!
1	There is a golden statue here with blue eyes!
2	There is a golden statue here with green eyes!
3	There is a golden statue here with yellow eyes!
4	There is a golden statue here with emerald eyes!
medicine	bathrm	0	1	0
0	There is some medicine here.
1	There is some partially-drunk medicine here.
moose	uhut	0	1	0
0	A highly valuable stuffed moose's head grins lopsidedly at you nearby.
pillar	uhut	0	0	0
0	A magnificent, ancient, marble pillar has been stolen and dropped here!
portcullis	inmth	mthidl	1	1	2
0	A raised portcullis is above an east-west link into the mouth of the
	idol.
1	A portcullis prevents passage east-west between the mouth of the
	idol and the opening to the outside.
wall	hut	0	0	1	noget	noit
wall	nhill1	0	0	1	noget	noit
wall	nhill2	0	0	1	noget	noit
wall	shill1	0	0	1	noget	noit
wall	shill2	0	0	1	noget	noit
wall	ufrst1	0	0	1	noget	noit
wall	ufrst5	0	0	1	noget	noit
wall	ufrst2	0	0	1	noget	noit
objonledge	ledge1	0	0	1	noget	noit
objonledge	ledge2	0	0	1	noget	noit
objonledge	ledge3	0	0	1	noget	noit
emerald	ledge3	0	1	1
0	A fabulous emerald lies loosely among the rock.
1	A fabulous emerald has been dropped here!
tdoor	hut	laddrm	1	1	2	noit
0	Fixed on the wall less firmly than the rest is a valuable moose's head.
	A trapdoor is open in the floor connecting the hut and a steep shaft
	containing a ladder.
1	An empty space on the wall is marked, in an unsteady but loving hand,
	by the word "MOOSE".
painting	attic	0	0	0
0	Catching your attention is a beautiful painting of a crown in a swamp.
doll	attic	0	0	0
0	A child's antique doll is here, cast carelessly to the floor.
candlestick	attic	0	0	0
0	A richly ornamented brass candlestick lies on the ground.
chest	attic	0	0	0
0	A heavy chest is here, its padlock long since rusted away. Burned onto
	the lid is a mark, shaped like a black rose.
pendant	wstlpl	0	1	1
0	A beautiful amber pendant catches your eye glistening by the iced pool.
1	A beautiful amber pendant catches your eye nearby.
pendview	estlpl	0	0	1	noit	noget
0	On the opposite bank of the pool you can see a beautiful pendant!
rootview	root	altar	ydead1	rtun1	rtun2	0	1	2	noit
1	The way through the tunnel is blocked after a fire caused a cave-in.
tunview	stun1	stun2	stun3	stun4	stun5	stun6	stun7	stun8	stun9	stun10	cellar	uhut	dead15	0	1	2	noit
1	The tunnel has collapsed and cannot be entered.
pool	wstlpl	estlpl	1	1	2
0	The still pool has been frozen and the way across is easy.
1	The still pool looks very deep and has a mysteriousness about it. A
	shallow mist hangs over it, and the room is stuffy and warm.
leg	cavein	0	0	1
0	There lies nearby the rotting leg of a recently-dead corpse.
icicle		altar	0	0	1
0	Some icicles cool the air around you.
cross	<maze25	maze10>	0	0	0
0	You have found a small silver cross, battered and misshapen from some
	enormous heat. On it is inscribed, "Carry me with you."
wand	<cave	lgrm	pantry	sorcrm	nhill2	beach4>	0	0	1
0	There is an ebony staff here without a rusty star on the end.
wand	store	0	0	1
0	There is an ebony staff here with a shiny star on the end.
wand	sectn	0	0	0
0	Hey, how'd you get to read this description?
ox	50	0	6	epstre	0	4	1
0	A sturdy ox lumbers past you nearby.
1	There is a highly valuable jade statue of an ox here!
2	There lies the carcass of a murdered ox nearby.
3	There lies a dead ox off to one side.
4	There is a worthless jade statue of an ox here.
brand	nfrst1	1	1	2	bright
0	There is a burning fire brand here.
1	There is a large stick on the ground.
brand	ifrst3	1	1	2	bright
0	%brand
1	%brand
brand	nfrst5	1	1	2	bright
0	%brand
1	%brand
brand	nfrst7	1	1	2	bright
0	%brand
1	%brand
brand	fslop1	1	1	2	bright
0	%brand
1	%brand
brand	forist	1	1	2	bright
0	%brand
1	%brand
brand	store	0	1	2	bright
0	%brand
1	%brand
brand	store	0	1	2	bright
0	%brand
1	%brand
brand	ufrst5	1	1	2	bright
0	%brand
1	%brand
brand	nfrst3	1	1	2	bright
0	%brand
1	%brand
brand	nfrst4	1	1	2	bright
0	%brand
1	%brand
brand	cellar	1	1	2	bright
0	%brand
1	%brand
brand	temple	0	1	2	bright
0	%brand
1	%brand
brand	capt	1	1	2	bright
0	%brand
1	%brand
umbrella	wrdbe	1	1	2
0	There is an unfurled umbrella here.
1	There is a furled umbrella here.
parasol	<bdrm02	bstand	wabe>	1	1	0
0	A pretty, oriental parasol lies unfurled here.
1	A neatly furled parasol is propped up close by.
potatoes	patch	0	1	1
0	There are some potatoes here.
1	There are some golden potatoes here!
rattle	bdrm03	0	1	2
0	Nearby lies a toy rattle.
rain	ndale	paddck	grotto	ruin	wdale	forist	cuttin	rail1	rail2	rail3	rail4	stslop	scrubs	beach3	beach4	jetty	sdale	ogrnds	epstre	spstre	nhill1	nhill2	shill1	shill2	ostart	track1	track2	road2	start	clifff	wpstre	garden	path	beach	beach2	patch	gorse	wfall	river1	river2	rapids	outhut	sea1	sea2	sea3	sea4	sea5	sea6	sea7	sea8	sea9	sea10	sea11	sea12	sea13	sea14	sea15	sea16	woe1	woe2	srock1	srock2	srock3	inlet	crow	deck	stpoop	hdland	cove	ifrst5	slope1	slope2	slope3	slope4	pond1	river3	nbank	nest	glade	vrocks	poop	0	2	3	noit
1	It is raining.
2	It is snowing.
conch	bwfall	0	0	0
0	A beautiful conch glistens pearl-like in the light.
fossil	fossrm	0	0	1
0	The fossilised remains of a small finger bone lie here.
crack	revrm	fossrm	1	1	2	noit	noget
0	A crack in the wall permits east-west passage with another room.
curtain	temple	0	2	2
0	A curtain patterned with writing hangs loosely by the opening to the
	north.
1	A curtain patterned with writing has been drawn closed covering the
	opening to the north.
2	A curtain patterned with writing lies strewn at your feet.
incense	hchamb	0	0	0
0	An urn of rare frankincense stands majestically nearby.
ring	chambr	0	1	1
0	A brass finger-ring lies in one corner.
1	An astonishingly beautiful ring nearby makes you gasp in amazement!
ring	fring	2	2	3	noget
wolfsbane	garden	0	-1	2
0	A curious herb gives off a sweet odour nearby.
1	A curious herb gives off a sweet odour nearby.
wolfsbane	slope2	0	0	1
0	A curious herb gives off a sweet odour nearby.
hyacinth	garden	0	0	0
0	A gorgeous hyacinth has been picked and left here.
key	<dining	lounge	study>	0	0	1
0	A set of rusty keys can be seen here.
key	<cupd1	hut	attic>	0	0	1
0	%keys
key	<passg1	passg2	platfm	uland1	uland2	wstep3>	0	0	1
0	%keys
key	zroom	0	0	1
0	%keys
key	store	0	0	0
0	A set of shiny keys can be seen here.
key	store	0	0	0
0	%keys
axe	<hut	uhut	gorse>	0	-1	2
0	A mighty woodsman's axe lies on the ground here.
1	A mighty woodsman's axe shines on the ground here.
axe	guadrm	0	0	0
0	A stout axe nearby gleams in the light.
axe	store	0	0	1
0	The axe of a mighty woodsman lies on the ground here.
tree	wfrst1	3	3	4	noget
0	There is a felled yew tree here. You can see that the hollow stump
	leads down to the depths.
1	There is a mighty yew tree here, with large chunks chopped off.
2	There is a mighty yew tree here, with axe-marks on the trunk.
3	There is a mighty yew tree here.
sign	slope1	1	1	0
0	There is a chopped down signpost here.
1	Fixed into the ground is a signpost.
bed	bdrm01	0	2	1	noget
0	A bed with the bedclothes in disarray stands solidly in the centre
	of the room.
1	There is a neatly made bed here.
2	A bed with the bedclothes unmade stands solidly in the centre
	of the room
fire	lounge	1	-1	2	contains	256000	noget	disguised
0	A fire is burning merrily in its grate. The flickering flames are a
	joy to behold as you warm your hands from the glowing coals.
1	There is a fire burning merrily in the grate, its cheerful glare
	spreads a delightful air of homeliness.
fire	altar	1	1	2	bright	contains	256000	noget	disguised
fire	store	0	0	1	bright	contains	256000	noget	disguised
0	A roaring fire is burning in the grate, spreading a cosy feeling
	around the room.
fire	kingst	1	-1	2	contains	256000	noget	disguised
0	A merry fire here casts a cheery glow around the room.
1	A cheerful fire here casts a merry glow around the room.
tomb	maze25	tombrm	1	1	2
1	A voice, speaking inside your head, seems to say, "A prize will open
	the tomb."
0	The tomb is open.
tomb	mosolm	0	0	1	noget
bookcase	ssteps	study	1	1	2
0	The bookcase has been shifted aside to allow passage behind it.
1	The bookcase stands flush against the wall.
stepladder	cupd2	0	0	1	noget
0	A heavy stepladder leads upwards to the ceiling.
sdoor	cuptop	attic	0	1	2	noit
0	There is a secret door open between the cupboard and the attic.
cupboard	bdrm03	cupd2	1	1	2
0	The cupboard is unlatched.
1	The cupboard is latched shut.
grave	maze1	maze2	maze3	maze4	maze5	maze6	maze7	0	-41	100
0	There is a grave here. The name on the headstone reads, "Roy Trubshaw".
1	There is a long forgotten gravestone here inscribed, "Nigel Roberts".
2	There is a tomb here; the name inscribed reads, "Polly the Witch".
3	On a huge grave is the name, "Evil the Wizard".
4	Graffiti on a nearby grave reads, "Visit Murrell's balloon emporium".
5	Inscribed on a nearby grave is the name of some body.
6	A headstone lies on its side nearby; the name on it is unreadable.
7	Inscribed on a modestly austere tombstone here is the name, "Richard
	the Wizard".
8	On a nearby tomb is the name of someone dead.
9	You can just make out the name on this tombstone.
10	Over to your right is an unmarked grave belonging to Brian Mallett.
11	On a grave close by reads, "Gwyn the Wizard lies only a few feet from
	here".
12	Before you looms an obsidian vault, insculpt "Shadow the Wizard".
13	Before you stands a granite tomb, topped with a garden Gnome.
14	A tombstone here reads, "Here rest the immortal remains of 'Merrick',
	R.I.M. - he came to study Computing, but got waylaid in the MUD".
15	Two tombstones to your left read, "Helmut the Wizard".
16	A tombstone here bears the epitaph, "Fenwyn (Wizard".
17	The tomb of Jock the Wizard rises before you, inscribed, "But for a
	devaluation of the point, he would have been here three weeks earlier".
18	A small rock to one side marks the grave of Foxy the Wizard.
19	The grave of Denise the Witch lies to one side, covered in footprints
	where Egor the Wizard has danced.
20	The headstone of Gorpli the Wizard stands here, with nothing significant
	on it.
21	Hacked into a tombstone before you is the epitaph, "Madmax the Wizard".
22	The tomb before you bears the name, "Roddy the Wizard", which has
	obviously been painted on very quickly.
23	The romanesque tomb of Lacrima the Witch stands here, amid a small pool
	of salt water.
24	Here stands the grave of Clive the Wizard, QED.
25	The tombstone of Paula the witch stands here, reading, "Kissing has lots
	of good points".
26	Entombed here lies Innocence the Witch, her epitaph, reading, "The
	mortals' favourite immortal", having been raised by public subscription.
27	Alan the wizard is virtually buried here.
28	Christian the wizard is buried here, beneath a tombstone reading, "A
	legend in his own lifetime" four times.
29	You see what looks like the tomb of Petal the witch before you, but
	realise it's Gnot.
30	Inscribed on a headstone to your left are the words, "Saavik, a wizard
	at kissing and making up".
31	Before you stands the grave of Balastor the wizard, made without any
	help whatsoever from Egor the Wizard...
32	The mass grave of Bwian, Faratol, Frobozz, Paysul, Bytor, Snieker
	and Dan the wiz's is here, until they can be exhumed to more suitable
	private accommodation.
33	A Celtic cross here bears the inscription, "Here is the body of Planxty
	the Wizard, in his favourite position (horizontal)".
34	Gripper the wizard's aerial-bearing tombstone nearby reads "heavy
	drinking got me here".
35	The tomb of Mugsanon the wizard stands before you, inscribed
	"IItt''ss eeaassyy wwhheenn yyoouu kknnooww hhooww..".
36	Here stands the gravestone of Crab the wiz, it doesn't say much, but
	then, that's showbiz!
37	The carefully constructed tomb of Morgwyn the witch stands here, ringed
	by a variety of footprints.
38	A Reliable tombstone stands before you.
39	Here stands the tomb of Maria the witch, vaguely resembling a large
	button and bearing the inscription, "f1".
40	Scrawled over the top of a crossing out on a tombstone here are the
	words, "Jon the wizard".
41	This is the tombstone of Achetus the wizard, but his bones are lost in
	the swamp.
grave	maze8	maze9	maze10	0	-41	100
0	The grave to your left reads, "In memory of Ulin Smith, BSc, RIP".
1	A nearby epitaph reads, "I didn't know marsh-gas was explosive"
2	A broken headstone lies scattered about you.
3	An inscription nearby reads, "Coming here was a grave mistake".
4	On a headstone to your right reads the inscription, "Rather here than
	carrying the egg".
5	A headstone to the east bears the inscription, "OK, so maybe the dragon
	WAS a bit of a handful...".
6	A nearby headstone bears the legend, "I wonder what happens if I eat
	the toadstool?".
7	A grave to your left bears the words, "One who forgot to unfurl the
	umbrella lies here".
8	The grave of Nic the Wizard is eventually here.
9	The grave of Andy the Wizard is somehow here.
10	The grave of Eric the Wizard was here until you started playing.
11	The tomb of Ridicule the Wizard has been gradually built up here.
12	Here is the final resting place of Gizmo the Witch, who hasn't ordered
	her tombstone yet...
13	The grave of Zardoz the Wizard is here - "Forgotten but not gone".
14	Felicity the witch is buried here: her tombstone bears the epitaph,
	"A spectacular life led me here".
15	You smell the grave of Conn the Wizard some way to one side.
16	Siona the Witch rests uneasily here, in a morbid black shirt.
17	The tomb of Zaphod the Wizard is here, marked "Do not open until 2am".
18	By a highly baroque, gaudy and ostentatious tomb here is a single
	Rosebud.
19	The grave of the unknown wizard stands before you, beneath which lies
	entombed Egor the Wizard.
20	The hastily-erected grave of Endora the Witch is said to stand here...
21	To one side lies the securely water-proofed grave of Cesil the Wizard.
22	The grave of Tremble the Wizard is here, made almost entirely of old
	logs.
23	Before you stands the grave of Thor the wizard, marked, "Stopped Press".
24	The open grave of a witch yawns before you.
25	The tombstone of Rudy the wizard stands here, marked, "Gone before his
	time".
26	Nick the wizard is buried here. The tombstone has been removed for the
	words on it to be cleaned.
27	Elric the wizard is buried here beneath a tomb reading, "See where
	helping other people gets you".
28	A headstone before you reads, "Azax the wizard lies here". The word
	"lies" has been underlined several times.
29	You are standing on the plot where Simone the Witch would be buried had
	she been killed en route to witch.
30	A tombstone before you reads, "Here lies the body of Kronos, a witch
	through no fault of her own".
31	Six feet below you lie the remains of Happy the Wizard, "deep in
	meditation".
32	Far to the east is the grave of Limhongch the Wizard.
33	A black monolith before you encases the body of Vulnax the Wizard.
34	The grave of Jason the whinging Wizard stands here, insculpt "He
	had his cake and ate it".
35	Before you stands the mighty statue of a centaur, guarding the grave of
	Chester the Wizard.
36	Here stands the tomb of Shrayer the Witch, closely resembling a prince.
37	Etched onto the grave of Dan the Wizard here are the words, "I got
	by with a litle help from my friends".
38	The double-size grave of Fazz the Wizard here bears the sentence,
	"T for two".
39	The wind, whistling above this forsaken spot, seems to whisper the
	words, "Well, Qbert, what do you want on your tombstone?".
40	Here stands the tomb of Vivian the Wizard, "A sufferer of swamp
	fever".
41	The proud marble headstone of Tixy the Wizard stands before you,
	manufactured in Essex by Vivian's Patent Philanthropic Enterprises.
blade	saltar	0	0	1	noget
0	A bloodstained sacrificial blade is chained to the altar.
eyeview	bef1	  0	  0	  1	noit	noget
0	High up the idol, embedded in its forhead, is a dazzling ruby for an
	eye! It seems to have remained there fixed for several centuries.
eye	eyedol	eyedol	0	1	1
0	The idol's eye is a dazzling ruby!
1	There is a dazzling ruby here!
carpet	guadrm	1	1	1
0	There is an unrolled carpet here.
1	There is a rolled-up carpet here.
beggar	100	0	6	sfrst1	0	0	0	50	noget
0	A deaf, dumb, blind, lame beggar sits despondently nearby.
wolf	wolfrm	1	1	1	150	noget
1	A ravenous, terrifying wolf dribbles and licks its lips as it watches
	you intently.
dragon	20	0	66	ifrst1	0	0	0	800	noget
0	Beating its enormous wings above you is an immense, fire-breathing
	dragon!
shark	0	0	6	sea1	0	0	0	125	noget
0	A shark fin can be seen cutting through the water around you.
dryad	20	0	6	clffst	0	0	0	80	noget
0	In amongst the trees is an evil-looking dryad, scowling menacingly.
icon	isanct	0	0	0
0	A beautiful icon depicting a hallowed chamber lies here.
icon	isanct	0	0	0
0	A valuable icon depicting a shrine lies here.
icon	isanct	0	0	0
0	A glorious icon depicting an ancient chamber lies here.
icon	isanct	0	0	0
0	A marvellous icon depicting the inner sanctum lies here.
golem	osanct	1	1	1	120	noget
1	A golem of solid iron stands here as guardian of the inner sanctum.
barrel	level	0	1	2
0	A large barrel containing putrid, reddish water stands here.
1	A broken, empty barrel lies here.
mud	schamb	mudrm	1	1	2
0	The mud which prevented east-west passage between the mud room and
	the small chamber has been removed.
1	The walls of the room are caked in a rock-hard covering of dry, 
	porous mud.
firestone	schamb	0	0	0	bright	nosummon
0	A beautiful, iridescent firestone glows nearby.
firestone	<ntomb	etomb	stomb	wtomb>	0	0	0	bright	nosummon
0	An iridescent, beautiful firestone glows nearby.
firestone	store	0	0	0	bright	nosummon
0	A beautiful, glowing firestone iridesces nearby.
firestone	store	0	0	0	bright	nosummon
0	A glowing, beautiful firestone iridesces nearby.
*travel	go
ostart	n	road2	e	o
	n	maze1	n
	n	nfrst3	ne
	n	path	s
	beast	garden	sw
	nanny	garden	sw
	pegasus	garden	sw
	rug	garden	sw
	marble	garden	sw
	tub	garden	sw
	torch	garden	sw
	fungus	fring	sw
	n	garden	sw
	n	patch	se	swamp
	n	track2	w
	n	wfrst1	nw
home	n	start	o
	n	rost	jump
	n	maze1	n
	n	root	nw
	n	swamp1	swamp
	n	glade	s
	n	capt	w
	n	bch1	sw
	n	cave	se
	n	inmth	ne
	n	store	in
	n	natcav	e
	n	bdrm03	u
	n	cannrm	d
store	door	<sorcrm	rapids	rost	vrocks	main1	cave	chambr>	o	in	n	ne	e	se	s	sw	w	nw	u	d	swamp
limbo	door	limbo	o
nfrst1	n	nfrst4	w
	n	nfrst2	e	se	swamp	o
	n	nfrst3	s
	n	wfrst1	sw
	n	fslop1	n	d
	n	fslop2	ne
	n	fslop3	nw
nfrst4	n	nfrst1	e	o
	n	clffst	swamp	sw
	n	wfrst1	s
	n	nfrst3	se
	beast	474	jump
	wood	0	jump
	~parachute	beach	jump
	-13	jump
	n	fslop1	ne
	n	fslop3	n
	51	nw
	52	w
nfrst2	n	nfrst1	nw
	n	nfrst3	w
	wood	0	sw	s	se	swamp	o	e	ne	u
	n	road2	sw
	n	start	s	se	swamp	o
	n	nhill1	e
	n	nhill2	ne	u
	n	fslop2	n	d
nfrst3	wood	0	sw	o	s	se	w	swamp
	n	ostart	sw	o	swamp
	n	nfrst2	e	ne
	n	nfrst1	n
	n	nfrst4	nw
	n	maze1	w
	n	road2	s	se
clffst	n	wfrst1	e
	n	nfrst4	n	nw	ne
	wood	0	s	sw	swamp	se	o	jump
	n	track1	s	sw
	n	track2	swamp	se	o
	beast	474	jump
	~parachute	beach	jump
	-13	jump
	52	w
wfrst1	n	nfrst4	nw	n
	n	nfrst1	ne
	wood	0	sw	s	swamp	se	o	d	e
	n	track1	sw
	n	track2	s
	n	ostart	swamp	se	o
	tree	root	d
	n	clffst	w
	n	maze1	e
	116	u	jump
track1	n	clifff	s	sw
	n	track2	e	o
	n	clffst	n
	n	wfrst1	ne
	n	wpstre	swamp	se
	beast	474	jump
	~parachute	beach	jump
	-13	jump
	52	w
track2	n	track1	w
	n	wfrst1	n	ne
	n	clffst	nw
	n	clifff	sw
	n	wpstre	s	swamp
	beast	garden	se
	nanny	garden	se
	pegasus	garden	se
	rug	garden	se
	marble	garden	se
	tub	garden	se
	torch	garden	se
	fungus	fring	se
	n	garden	se
	n	ostart	e	o
road2	n	ostart	w
	n	nfrst2	ne
	n	nfrst3	n	nw
	n	start	e	o
	n	gorse	s	swamp
	n	mfrst	se
	n	patch	sw
start	n	mfrst	sw
	n	road2	w
	n	nfrst2	nw
	n	nhill1	n	ne	u
	n	shill1	s	swamp	se
	e	wayout	e	o
	591	e	o
wayout	e	start	w	in
clifff	n	track1	nw	n
	n	track2	ne	o
	n	wpstre	e
	n	wfall	s	sw
	n	river1	se	swamp
	beast	474	jump
	~parachute	beach	jump
	-13	jump
	52	w
fallin	e	bch1	d
	e	bch2	jump
	e	fallin	n	e	s	w
	892	d	jump
slidin	917	d	jump
wpstre	n	clifff	w
	n	track1	nw
	n	track2	n
	beast	garden	ne
	nanny	garden	ne
	pegasus	garden	ne
	rug	garden	ne
	marble	garden	ne
	tub	garden	ne
	torch	garden	ne
	fungus	fring	ne
	n	garden	ne
	n	epstre	e	o
	n	river1	s	sw
	n	river2	se	swamp
garden	n	clifff	w
	n	track2	nw
	n	ostart	n	ne	o
	n	wpstre	s	swamp	sw	sw
	n	path	e	se
path	n	hall	s	in
	n	ostart	n	ne	nw	o
	beast	garden	w	sw
	nanny	garden	w	sw
	pegasus	garden	w	sw
	rug	garden	w	sw
	marble	garden	w	sw
	tub	garden	w	sw
	torch	garden	w	sw
	fungus	fring	w	sw
	n	garden	w	sw
	n	patch	e	se	swamp
patch	n	path	w
	n	ostart	n	nw	o
	n	road2	ne
	n	epstre	s	sw
	n	gorse	e	se	swamp
gorse	n	patch	w	nw
	n	epstre	sw	se	swamp
	n	outhut	s
	n	mfrst	e
	n	road2	ne	n	o
mfrst	n	start	n	ne	o
	n	road2	nw
	n	gorse	w
	n	rapids	s
	n	outhut	sw
	n	cave	se	swamp
	n	shill1	e	u
wfall	n	clifff	nw	n	ne	out
	n	river1	e	swamp
	beast	474	jump
	~parachute	beach	jump
	-13	jump
	55	s	sw	se
	52	w
river1	n	wfall	w
	n	river2	e	swamp
	n	clifff	nw
	n	wpstre	n	ne	out
	parachute	spstre	s	se	sw
	boat	spstre	s	se	sw
	rain	spstre	s	se	sw
	120	s	se	sw
river2	n	river1	w
	n	rapids	e	swamp
	n	wpstre	n	nw
	n	epstre	ne	out
	parachute	spstre	s	sw	se
	boat	spstre	s	sw	se
	rain	spstre	s	sw	se
	120	s	sw	se
rapids	n	river2	w
	n	epstre	nw	n	out
	n	cave	ne	u
	torch	ydead3	s	se	swamp
	spark	ydead3	s	se	swamp
	n	swamp1	s	swamp
	n	pond1	se
	n	spstre	sw
	196	e
cave	n	epstre	w
	n	rapids	sw	s	swamp
	n	mfrst	n	nw
	n	shill2	ne	u	out
	n	befgte	e	in
nhill2	n	nfrst2	w	swamp	sw
	n	nhill1	s	se	d	out
	n	fslop2	nw
	54	n	ne	e	u
nhill1	n	nhill2	n	ne	u
	n	fslop2	nw
	n	nfrst2	w
	n	start	se	s	sw	d	out	swamp
	54	e
shill1	n	start	n	ne	nw	d	out
	n	mfrst	w
	n	shill2	se	u
	n	cave	sw	swamp	s
	54	e
shill2	n	shill1	n	ne	nw	d	out
	n	cave	w	sw	swamp
	54	e	se	s
hut	n	outhut	n	out	swamp
	beast	199	d	in
	nanny	659	d	in
	pegasus	441	d	in
	tdoor	laddrm	d	in
laddrm	bird	428	u	out
	tdoor	hut	u	out
	195	u	out
	n	uhut	d	in
uhut	marble	200	w	in
	tub	60	w	in	u	out
	n	laddrm	u	out
	tunview	stun1	w	in
	208	w	in
stun1	tunview	342	e	n	out
	d	uhut	e	out
	d	stun2	n
	198	e	out	n
	n	dead15	ne	nw	se	sw	s
stun2	tunview	342	s	w
	d	stun1	s
	d	stun3	w
	198	s	w
	n	dead15	n	ne	e	se	sw	nw
stun3	tunview	342	e	nw
	d	stun2	e
	d	stun4	nw
	198	e	nw
	n	dead15	n	ne	se	s	sw	w
stun4	tunview	342	s	se
	d	stun3	se
	d	stun5	s
	198	s	se
	n	dead15	n	ne	e	sw	w	nw
stun5	tunview	342	n	sw
	d	stun4	n
	d	stun6	sw
	198	n	sw
	n	dead15	ne	e	se	s	w	nw
stun6	tunview	342	nw	ne
	d	stun5	ne
	d	stun7	nw
	198	ne	nw
	n	dead15	n	e	w	s	se	sw
stun7	tunview	342	se	w
	d	stun6	se
	d	stun8	w
	198	se	w
	n	dead15	n	ne	e	s	sw	nw
stun8	tunview	342	e	n
	d	stun7	e
	d	stun9	n
	198	e	n
	n	dead15	ne	se	s	sw	w	nw
stun9	tunview	342	s	nw
	d	stun10	nw
	d	stun8	s
	198	nw	s
	n	dead15	n	ne	e	se	sw	w
stun10	tunview	342	n	out	se
	d	cellar	n	out
	d	stun9	se
	198	n	se	out
	n	dead15	ne	e	s	sw	w	nw
dsteps	vermin	cellar	u	ne	out	swamp
	n	hall	u	ne	out	swamp
	n	cellar	d	sw	in
xmasbx	n	xmasbx	n
cellar	n	dsteps	u	ne	out	swamp
	pegasus	441	s
	beast	199	s
	nanny	659	s
	marble	201	s
	tub	60	s
	tunview	stun10	s
	208	s
	door	bunker	w	in
	50	w	in
bunker	torch	dead39	e	out
	vermin	rattun	s	in
	door	cellar	e	out
	595	s	in
	50	e	out
rattun	rstop	hall	out
	n	bunker	in
outhut	bird	428	s	in
	n	hut	in	s
	n	gorse	n	nw	out
	n	epstre	sw	w
	n	mfrst	e	ne
	n	cave	se
	n	rapids	s	swamp
befgte	n	cave	w	out	swamp
	n	befidl	e	in
	beast	ydead4	n
	n	saltar	n
	n	oglair	s
saltar	beast	ydead4	s
	n	befgte	s	out	swamp
oglair	n	befgte	n	out	swamp
	ogre	ydead8	s	in
	n	leprm	s	in
leprm	n	oglair	n	out	swamp
bef1	forced	ydead5
	n	mthidl	e	u
	n	befgte	w	out	swamp
	tub	60	n	in
	pegasus	441	n	in
	beast	199	n	in
	nanny	659	n	in
	marble	201	n	in
	n	crypt	n	in
crypt	n	befidl	s	out	swamp
befidl	forced	bef1
mthidl	n	eyedol	u
	n	befidl	w	d	out	swamp
	beast	474	jump
	parachute	befidl	jump
	portcullis	inmth	e	in
	n	bef1	jump
inmth	portcullis	mthidl	w	out
	n	hollow	e	in
hollow	n	inmth	w	out
	n	rockps	e	in
	n	rsteps	d
rockps	n	hollow	w	out
	n	chambr	e	in
chambr	n	rockps	w	out
rsteps	n	hollow	u	out
	n	uland1	d	in
uland1	n	rsteps	u	out
	door	guadrm	n	in
	220	n	in
	n	wstep1	d
guadrm	door	uland1	s	out
	220	s	out
wstep1	n	uland1	u	out
	n	wstep2	d	in
wstep2	n	wstep1	u	out
	n	wstep3	d	in
wstep3	n	wstep2	u	out
	n	uland2	d	in
uland2	n	wstep3	u	out
	n	natcav	w	in
natcav	n	uland2	e	out
	n	passg1	w	in
passg1	n	passg2	n	in
	n	natcav	e	out
	n	passg3	s
	door	passg4	w
	50	w
passg2	door	gob1	n	in
	n	passg1	s	out
	50	n	in
passg3	n	passg1	n	out
	door	passg9	s	in
	50	s
passg4	n	gob2	w	in
	door	passg1	e	out
	50	e
passg5	n	gob3	w	in
	door	gob2	e	out
	50	e	out
passg6	n	gob4	n	in
	door	gob3	s	out
	50	s	out
passg7	n	gob5	n	in
	n	gob2	s	out
passg8	n	gob1	e	out
	door	gob5	w	in
	50	w
passg9	door	passg3	n	out
	n	ewstep	e	u	in
	n	curve	w	sw
	50	n	out
pass10	n	crookp	e	out
	n	lsp1	n	nw	u
	n	cannrm	s	sw	in
gob1	goblins	passg8	w	in
	door	passg2	s	out
	50	s	out
	291	w	in
gob2	goblins	passg7	n
	goblins	passg4	e	out
	goblins	longps	s	in
	door	passg5	w
	50	w
	291	n	e	s	in
gob3	door	passg6	n	in
	goblins	passg5	e	out
	50	n	in
	291	e	out
gob4	door	treasc	n	in	ne
	goblins	passg6	s	out
	50	n	in	ne
	291	s	out
gob5	door	passg8	e	out
	goblins	passg7	s
	goblins	treasc	n	d	in	nw
	50	e	out
	291	n	s	d	in
treasc	door	gob4	s	sw	out
	213	u
	50	s	sw	out
ewstep	magbar	passg9	d	w	out
	n	spanel	u	e	in
	271	d	w	out
curve	n	passg9	e	n	out
	n	diagps	ne	s	in
diagps	n	curve	sw	out	w
	panel	bluerm	ne	in	e	n
	270	ne	in	e	n
spanel	n	ewstep	w	d	out
bluerm	panel	diagps	sw	out	w	s
	270	sw	out	w	s
longps	n	gob2	n	out
	n	crookp	s	in
crookp	sprig	503	n	out
	n	longps	n	out
	n	pass10	w	in
	n	nstep1	e	d
lsp1	n	pass10	s	out	d
	n	lsp2	n	in	u
lsp2	n	lsp1	s	out	d
	n	lsp3	n	in	u
lsp3	n	lsp2	s	out	d
	n	river3	n	in	u
river3	n	lsp3	s	out	d
	rain	nbank	n	ne	nw	in	jump
	120	n	ne	nw	in
	272	w	e
nbank	rain	river3	s	sw	se	out	jump
	120	s	sw	se	out
	272	w	e
cannrm	n	pass10	n	ne	out
	door	fowrm	s	sw	in
	273	s	sw	in
fowrm	n	cannrm	n	ne	out
eyedol	n	mthidl	d	out	swamp
	143	u
	beast	474	jump
	parachute	befidl	jump
	n	bef1	jump
nstep1	n	crookp	w	u	out
	n	nstep2	e	d	in
nstep2	n	nstep1	u	w	out
	n	nstep3	e	d	in
nstep3	n	nstep2	u	w	out
	n	uland3	e	d	in
uland3	n	nstep3	u	w	out
	463	nw
epstre	n	wpstre	w
	n	dining	nw	in
	n	outhut	n
	n	mfrst	ne	out
	n	rapids	s	se	swamp
	n	river2	sw
	n	cave	e	u
sfrst1	55	nw	n
	n	spstre	ne	out
	n	sfrst2	e	swamp
	51	s
	~parachute	beach2	jump
	-13	jump
	52	w	sw
	n	glade	se
sfrst2	n	spstre	nw	n
	n	sfrst1	w
	n	rapids	ne	out
	torch	ydead3	e	swamp
	spark	ydead3	e	swamp
	n	swamp1	e	swamp
	51	se
	n	glade	sw	s
glade	n	sfrst2	n	ne	out	swamp
	n	sfrst1	nw
	n	wabe	sw
	n	pines1	s
	n	sett	se
	51	e	w
wabe	n	glade	ne	out	swamp
	n	pines1	e	se
	n	pines7	sw	s
	n	bbath	w
	51	n	nw
sett	n	glade	nw	out	swamp
	n	pines1	w	sw
	nut	sqroom	e
	n	sqrm	e
	n	pines6	se	s
	51	n	ne
	paw	insett	d	in
	stone	insett	d	in
	392	d	in
pines1	n	glade	n	out	swamp
	n	sett	ne
	n	pines6	e
	n	pines3	se	s
	n	pines2	sw
	n	pines7	w
	n	wabe	nw
bbath	n	wabe	e	out	swamp
	n	pines7	s	se
	n	lionrm	nw
	51	n	ne	sw	w
lionrm	n	bbath	se	out	swamp
	51	n	ne	e	s	sw	w	nw
sqrm	n	sett	nw	w	out	swamp
	n	pines6	sw	s
	51	n	ne	e	se	in
sqroom	nut	dead34	n	ne	e	se	s	sw	w	nw	out	in	swamp
	n	sett	nw	w	out	swamp
	n	pines6	sw	s
	51	n	ne	e	se	in
pines7	n	bbath	n	out	swamp
	n	wabe	ne
	n	pines1	e
	n	pines2	se
	n	pines5	s
	51	sw	w	nw
pines6	nut	sqroom	n
	n	sqrm	n
	n	sett	nw	out	swamp
	n	pines1	w
	n	pines3	sw
	n	pines4	s
	n	bstand	se	in
	51	e	ne
pines2	n	pines1	ne	n	out	swamp
	n	pines3	e
	n	whroom	se
	n	pines5	s	sw
	n	pines7	w	nw
pines3	n	pines1	n	nw	out	swamp
	n	pines6	ne
	n	pines4	se
	n	whroom	s	sw
	n	pines2	w
	n	bstand	e	in
pines5	n	pines7	n	out	swamp
	n	pines2	ne
	n	whroom	e
	n	gaptrm	sw
	51	se	s	w	nw
pines4	n	pines6	n	out	swamp
	n	pines3	nw
	n	whroom	w
	n	bstand	ne	in
	n	shrine	se
	51	e	s	sw
shrine	n	pines4	nw	o	swamp
osanct	golem	isanct	n	in
	989	n	in
	n	vrocks	ne	e	se	s	sw	w	nw	o	swamp	jump
isanct	n	osanct	s	in	o
	n	vrocks	n	ne	e	se	sw	w	nw	swamp	jump
gaptrm	n	pines5	ne	out	swamp
	51	n	nw	w	sw	s	se	e
insett	n	sett	u	out	swamp
whroom	n	pines3	n	ne	out	swamp
	n	pines4	e
	n	pines2	nw
	n	pines5	w
	51	sw	s	se
bstand	n	pines6	nw	o	swamp
	n	pines3	w
	n	pines4	sw
	51	n	ne	e	se	s
spstre	n	sfrst1	sw
	n	sfrst2	s	e
	55	w
	parachute	river2	n	out
	parachute	river1	nw
	boat	river2	n	out
	boat	river1	nw
	rain	river2	n	out
	rain	river1	nw
	n	rapids	ne
	torch	ydead3	se	swamp
	spark	ydead3	se	swamp
	n	swamp1	se	swamp
	120	n	out	nw
hall	n	path	n	out	swamp
	n	lounge	e
	door	kitche	s	in
	50	s	in
	n	stairs	se	u
	n	dsteps	sw	d
	n	wrdbe	w
wrdbe	n	hall	e	out	swamp
lounge	n	hall	out	w
	n	dining	s	swamp
	n	study	e	in
study	n	lounge	w	out	swamp
	bookcase	ssteps	s	in	d
ssteps	bookcase	study	n	out	swamp	u
	n	zroom	in	d	s
zroom	n	ssteps	u	n	out	swamp
	n	downps	d	s	in
downps	n	zroom	u	out	swamp	n
	door	sorcrm	s	in	d
	50	s	in	d
sorcrm	door	downps	n	u	out	swamp
	50	n	u	out	swamp
dining	n	lounge	n	ne	nw	in
	n	epstre	s	se	sw	out	swamp
	53	w
kitche	door	hall	n	out	swamp
	50	n	out	swamp
	53	e
	n	pantry	nw	d	in
pantry	n	kitche	u	s	se	out	swamp
stairs	n	hall	d	n	nw	out	swamp
	n	landin	u	s	se	in
landin	n	stairs	d	nw	out	swamp
	n	bathrm	sw	w
	n	cupd1	e	ne
	n	bdrm03	se
	n	bdrm01	s
	n	bdrm02	n
bathrm	n	landin	out	swamp	ne	e
cupd1	n	landin	w	sw	out	swamp
bdrm01	n	landin	n	out	swamp
	beast	474	jump
	parachute	epstre	s	jump	d
	129	s	jump	down
bdrm02	n	landin	s	out	swamp
	155	n	d	jump
bdrm03	n	landin	nw	out	swamp
	cupboard	cupd2	sw	in
cupd2	cupboard	bdrm03	n	out	swamp	ne
	torch	dead11	up	in
	n	cuptop	up	in
attic	rug	791	d	out	swamp
	sdoor	cuptop	d	out	swamp
cuptop	n	cupd2	d	out	swamp
	sdoor	attic	u	in
maze1	n	maze2	se
	n	ostart	out	s
	n	maze1	n	ne	e	w	sw	nw
maze2	n	maze3	nw
	grave	ostart	out
	n	maze2	n	ne	e	s	w	sw	se
maze3	n	maze4	s
	grave	ostart	out
	n	maze3	n	ne	e	se	w	sw	nw
maze4	n	maze5	n
	grave	ostart	out
	n	maze4	se	ne	e	s	w	sw	nw
maze5	n	maze6	ne
	grave	ostart	out
	n	maze5	n	se	e	s	w	sw	nw
maze6	n	maze7	sw
	grave	ostart	out
	n	maze6	n	ne	e	s	w	se	nw
maze7	n	maze8	w
	grave	ostart	out
	n	maze7	n	ne	e	s	se	sw	nw
maze8	n	maze9	e
	grave	ostart	out
	n	maze8	n	ne	se	s	w	sw	nw
maze9	n	maze10	n
	grave	ostart	out
	n	maze9	se	ne	e	s	w	sw	nw
maze10	n	maze25	s
	grave	ostart	out	swamp
	n	maze10	n	ne	e	w	sw	nw	se
maze25	n	ostart	n	ne	e	s	w	sw	nw	se	swamp	out
	tomb	tombrm	d	in
uswamp	n	swamp1	o	u	swamp
swamp1	n	swamp2	[se	sw	s	ne]
	n	swamp1	se	sw	s	ne
	n	spstre	nw
	n	pond1	e	out
	n	rapids	n
	n	sfrst2	w
	dd	1050	d	jump
	490	swamp
swamp2	n	swamp3	[se	sw	s	ne]
	n	swamp1	se	sw	s	ne
	n	spstre	nw
	n	pond1	e	out
	n	rapids	n
	n	sfrst2	w
	dd	1050	d	jump
	490	swamp
swamp3	n	swamp4	[se	sw	s	ne]
	n	swamp1	se	sw	s	ne
	n	spstre	nw
	n	pond1	e	out
	n	rapids	n
	n	sfrst2	w
	dd	1050	d	jump
	490	swamp
swamp4	n	swamp5	[se	sw	s	ne]
	n	swamp2	se	sw	s	ne
	n	spstre	nw
	n	pond1	e	out
	n	rapids	n
	n	sfrst2	w
	dd	1050	d	jump
	490	swamp
swamp5	n	swamp6	[se	sw	s	ne]
	n	swampa	[se	sw	s	ne]
	n	swamp2	se	sw	s	ne
	n	spstre	nw
	n	pond1	e	out
	n	rapids	n
	n	sfrst2	w
	dd	1050	d	jump
	490	swamp
swamp6	n	swamp8	[se	sw	s	ne]
	n	swamp1	se	sw	s	ne
	n	spstre	nw
	n	pond1	e	out
	n	rapids	n
	n	sfrst2	w
	dd	1050	d	jump
	490	swamp
swamp8	n	swamp9	[se	sw	s	ne]
	n	swampa	[se	sw	s	ne]
	n	swamp3	se	sw	s	ne
	n	spstre	nw
	n	pond1	e	out
	n	rapids	n
	n	sfrst2	w
	dd	1050	d	jump
	490	swamp
swamp9	n	swampb	[se	sw	s	ne]
	n	swampa	[se	sw	s	ne]
	n	swamp4	se	sw	s	ne
	n	spstre	nw
	n	pond1	e	out
	n	rapids	n
	n	sfrst2	w
	dd	1050	d	jump
	490	swamp
swampa	n	swamp4	[se	sw	s	ne]
	n	swamp2	se	sw	s	ne
	n	spstre	nw
	n	pond1	e	out
	n	rapids	n
	n	sfrst2	w
	dd	1050	d	jump
	490	swamp
swampb	n	swampc	[se	sw	s	ne]
	n	swamp4	se	sw	s	ne
	n	spstre	nw
	n	pond1	e	out
	n	rapids	n
	n	sfrst2	w
	dd	1050	d	jump
	490	swamp
swampc	n	swampd	[se	sw	s	ne]
	n	swamp5	se	sw	s	ne
	n	spstre	nw
	n	pond1	e	out
	n	rapids	n
	n	sfrst2	w
	dd	1050	d	jump
	490	swamp
swampd	n	swamp7	[se	sw	s	ne]
	n	swamp3	se	sw	s	ne
	n	spstre	nw
	n	pond1	e	out
	n	rapids	n
	n	sfrst2	w
	dd	1050	d	jump
	490	swamp
swamp7	n	swamp1	se	s	sw	ne
	n	spstre	nw
	n	pond1	e	out
	n	rapids	n
	n	sfrst2	w
	114	d	jump
	490	swamp
pond1	n	rapids	nw	out
	torch	ydead3	n	ne	e	se	s	sw	w	in	swamp
	n	swamp1	n	ne	e	se	s	sw	w	in	swamp
beach	forced	yrdead
	n	fortun	in	e
	n	bch2	s
	214	n
	pegasus	467	w	sw	nw
	tub	468	w	sw	nw
	marble	469	w	sw	nw
	rug	470	w	sw	nw
	beast	471	w	sw	nw
	nanny	660	w	sw	nw
	boat	sea1	nw	w	sw
	215	nw	w	sw
fortun	n	bch1	out	w
	grate	smuggl	u	e	in
	85	u	e	in
smuggl	grate	fortun	d	w	out
	85	d	w	out
bch1	forced	beach
bch2	forced	beach2
beach2	forced	dead16
	n	bch1	n
	pegasus	467	w	sw	nw
	tub	468	w	sw	nw
	marble	469	w	sw	nw
	rug	470	w	sw	nw
	beast	471	w	sw	nw
	nanny	660	w	sw	nw
	boat	sea1	w	sw	nw
	n	srock1	s
	215	nw	w	sw
	pegasus	472	e	in
	beast	dead27	e	in
	parachute	bwfall	e	in
	dd	1052	e	in
sea1	rain	sea2	n	nw	w	sw	s
	fish	sea2	e	se	ne	sw	s
	rain	bch2	e
	rain	srock1	se
	rain	bch1	ne
	dd	1053	n	ne	e	se	s	sw	w	nw
sea2	rain	sea1	ne	e
	rain	sea3	n	nw
	rain	sea4	w	sw	s
	fish	sea4	se
	rain	srock2	se
	dd	1053	n	ne	e	se	s	sw	w	nw
sea3	rain	sea2	e	se
	rain	sea4	s
	rain	sea6	sw
	fish	sea2	e	se	s	sw	n
	rain	sea14	n
	n	dead20	nw	w	ne
	dd	1053	e	se	s	sw	n
sea4	rain	sea6	w
	rain	sea3	n
	fish	sea2	se
	rain	srock3	se
	rain	sea5	s
	rain	sea2	e	ne
	n	dead20	nw	sw
	dd	1053	n	ne	e	se	s	sw	w	nw
sea5	fish	sea4	e	ne
	rain	inlet	e
	rain	srock3	ne
	rain	sea4	n
	rain	sea6	nw
	rain	sea15	w
	n	dead20	sw	s	se
	dd	1053	n	ne	e	nw	w
sea6	rain	sea4	e
	rain	sea3	ne
	rain	sea5	se
	rain	sea15	sw
	fish	sea4	w
	rain	vrocks	w
	n	dead20	n	s	nw
	dd	1053	e	w	ne	se	sw
sea7	rain	vrocks	ne
	rain	sea8	nw
	rain	sea15	se
	n	dead20	n	e	s	sw	w
	dd	1053	ne	nw	se
sea8	torch	dead40	n	ne	e	se	s	sw	w	nw
	rain	sea7	se
	rain	sea9	ne
	n	dead20	n	nw	e	s	sw	w
	dd	1053	se	ne
sea9	rain	sea8	sw
	rain	sea10	n
	n	dead20	ne	e	se	s	w	nw
	dd	1053	sw	n
sea10	rain	sea9	s
	rain	slope1	n
	n	dead20	ne	e	se	sw	w	nw
	dd	1053	s	n
sea11	rain	beach4	ne	out
	rain	beach3	se
	rain	jetty	e
	rain	sea12	s	sw
	rain	sea13	w	nw
	rain	dead20	n
	dd	1053	n	ne	e	se	s	sw	w	nw	out
sea12	rain	beach3	e	se	ne	out
	rain	sea11	n
	rain	sea13	nw	w
	rain	sea14	sw
	rain	dead20	s
	dd	1053	n	ne	e	se	s	sw	w	nw	out
sea13	rain	sea11	e	ne	out
	rain	sea12	se
	rain	sea14	s	sw
	rain	dead20	n	w	nw
	dd	1053	n	ne	e	se	s	sw	w	nw	out
sea14	rain	sea13	n
	rain	sea12	ne	out
	rain	sea3	s
	rain	dead20	e	se	sw	w	nw
	dd	1053	n	ne	s	out
sea15	fish	sea5	n	nw
	rain	vrocks	n
	rain	sea7	nw
	rain	sea6	ne
	rain	sea5	e
	rain	sea16	s
	n	dead20	se	sw	w
	dd	1053	n	nw	ne	e	s
sea16	fish	sea15	s
	rain	sea15	n
	rain	woe1	s
	dd	1053	n	s
	n	dead20	ne	e	se	sw	w	nw
woe1	-64	s
	pegasus	467	n	ne	e	se	sw	w	nw
	tub	468	n	ne	e	se	sw	w	nw
	marble	469	n	ne	e	se	sw	w	nw
	rug	470	n	ne	e	se	sw	w	nw
	beast	471	n	ne	e	se	sw	w	nw
	nanny	660	n	ne	e	se	sw	w	nw
	boat	sea16	n	ne	e	se	sw	w	nw
	511	n	ne	e	se	sw	w	nw
woe2	-65	n
	pegasus	467	ne	e	se	s	sw	w	nw
	tub	468	ne	e	se	s	sw	w	nw
	marble	469	ne	e	se	s	sw	w	nw
	rug	470	ne	e	se	s	sw	w	nw
	beast	471	ne	e	se	s	sw	w	nw
	nanny	660	ne	e	se	s	sw	w	nw
	boat	sea16	ne	e	se	s	sw	w	nw
	511	ne	e	se	s	sw	w	nw
beach3	n	scrubs	e	u	out	swamp	ne
	n	beach4	n
	214	s	se
	pegasus	467	nw	w	sw
	tub	468	nw	w	sw
	marble	469	nw	w	sw
	rug	470	nw	w	sw
	beast	471	nw	w	sw
	nanny	660	nw	w	sw
	boat	sea11	nw
	boat	sea12	w	sw
	604	nw	w	sw
beach4	n	beach3	s
	n	scrubs	se	out	swamp
	n	rail1	e
	n	stslop	ne	u
	214	n
	n	jetty	w
	pegasus	467	nw	sw
	tub	468	nw	sw
	marble	469	nw	sw
	rug	470	nw	sw
	beast	471	nw	sw
	nanny	660	nw	sw
	boat	sea11	nw	sw
	604	nw	sw
jetty	n	beach4	e	ne	se	out	swamp
	pegasus	467	nw	w	sw	n	s
	tub	468	nw	w	sw	n	s
	marble	469	nw	w	sw	n	s
	rug	470	nw	w	sw	n	s
	beast	471	nw	w	sw	n	s
	nanny	660	nw	w	sw	n	s
	boat	sea11	nw	w	sw	n	s
	604	nw	sw	w	s	n
fslop1	n	nfrst1	s	u	out	swamp
	n	nfrst2	se
	n	fslop2	e
	n	fslop3	w
	n	nfrst4	sw
	wood	0	n	ne	nw	d
	n	sdale	n	ne	nw	d
fslop2	n	nfrst2	s	u	out	swamp
	n	fslop1	w
	n	nfrst1	sw
	wood	0	n	ne	nw	d	se
	n	ogrnds	ne	n	d
	n	sdale	nw
	n	nhill2	se
	51	e
fslop3	n	nfrst4	sw	s	u	swamp
	n	nfrst1	se	out
	n	fslop1	e
	wood	0	ne
	n	sdale	ne
	n	dcliff	n	nw	d
	51	w
sdale	n	fslop1	u	s	out	swamp
	n	fslop2	se
	n	ogrnds	e
	n	cuttin	ne
	n	forist	n
	n	wdale	nw
	n	dcliff	w
	n	fslop3	sw
ogrnds	n	fslop2	sw	s	u	out	swamp
	n	mosolm	se	in
	602	e
	n	efrst1	ne	n
	n	cutting	nw	d
	n	sdale	w
mosolm	n	ogrnds	nw	out	swamp	u
	tomb1	ntomb	n
	tomb2	wtomb	w
	tomb3	stomb	s
	tomb4	etomb	e
	tomb5	setomb	se
	tomb6	swtomb	sw
ntomb	n	mosolm	s	o	swamp
wtomb	n	mosolm	e	o	swamp
stomb	n	mosolm	n	o	swamp
etomb	n	mosolm	w	o	swamp
setomb	n	mosolm	nw	o	swamp
swtomb	n	mosolm	ne	o	swamp
dcliff	51	sw
	52	w
	wood	0	jump	e	ne	n	d	nw
	beast	474	jump
	parachute	beach3	jump
	603	jump
	n	fslop3	se	s	out	swamp	u
	n	sdale	e
	n	wdale	ne
	n	scrubs	n	d	nw
scrubs	n	dcliff	s	se	u	out	swamp
	n	wdale	e	ne
	n	rail1	n
	n	beach4	nw	d
	n	beach3	w	sw
wdale	n	sdale	s	se	out	up	swamp
	n	forist	e
	n	rail2	ne
	n	rail1	n	nw
	n	scrubs	w	d
	n	dcliff	sw
forist	n	sdale	out	up	s	swamp	se	sw
	n	cuttin	e
	n	rail3	ne
	n	rail2	n
	n	rail1	nw
	n	wdale	w	d
cuttin	n	ogrnds	s	se	u	out	swamp
	n	efrst1	e
	n	rail4	ne
	n	rail3	n	d
	n	rail2	nw
	n	forist	w
	n	sdale	sw
efrst1	n	ogrnds	s	sw	u	out	swamp
	n	rail4	n
	602	se	e	ne
	n	rail3	nw
	n	cuttin	w	d
rail1	n	wdale	s	out	swamp	u
	n	forist	se
	n	rail2	e
	n	ndale	ne
	n	stslop	n
	n	beach4	nw	w	d
	n	scrubs	sw
rail2	n	forist	s	u	out
	n	cuttin	se
	n	rail3	e
	n	ndale	n	ne	nw
	n	rail1	w
	n	wdale	sw	swamp
rail3	n	cuttin	u	s	out	swamp
	n	efrst1	se
	n	rail4	e
	n	paddck	ne	n
	n	ndale	nw
	n	rail2	w
	n	forist	sw
rail4	n	efrst1	s	u	out	swamp
	602	se	ne
	n	emine	d	e	in
	n	paddck	n	nw
	n	rail3	w
	n	cuttin	sw
emine	n	rail4	w	u	out	swamp
	n	main1	d	e	in
main1	n	emine	w	u	out	swamp
	n	main2	d	e	in
main2	n	main1	w	o	swamp
	flood	shaft1	n
	n	valvrm	u	e
	flood	main3	se	d	in
	733	n	se	d	in
platfm	door	shed	n	in
	50	n	in
	n	shaft2	e	u
	n	valvrm	w	d	out
shed	door	platfm	s	o
	50	s	o
valvrm	n	platfm	u	e	in
	n	main2	d	w	o
shaft2	n	platfm	w	o	d
	n	minor5	u	n	in
shaft1	n	main2	s	o	u
	n	minor1	e	in	d
main3	n	main2	nw	u	o
	n	main4	e	in
	n	main5	sw	d
main4	n	main3	w	o	u
	n	shaft3	e	in
	n	main6	s	d
shaft3	n	main4	w	u	out
	n	minor7	d	s	in
main5	n	main3	ne	u	o
	n	main7	s	d	in
main7	n	main5	u	o	n
	e	dpass1	s	d	in
	750	s	d	in
dpass1	n	main7	u	o	n
	n	dpass2	ne	in	d
dpass2	n	dpass1	sw	u
	n	dpass3	ne	o
	n	dpass5	s	d
	n	sectn	se
dpass3	n	main6	n	o	u
	n	dpass2	sw
	n	dpass4	se
sectn	e	dpass2	nw	u	in
	e	dpass4	e	o	d
	750	nw	u	in	e	o	d
dpass5	n	dpass2	n	u	o
	n	dpass6	se	in	d
dpass4	n	dpass3	nw	u	o
	n	dpass6	sw	in	d
	n	sectn	w
dpass6	n	dpass5	nw	u
	n	dpass4	ne	o
main6	n	main4	n	u	o
	e	dpass3	s	d	in
	750	s	d	in
minor1	n	shaft1	w	u	o
	n	minor2	d	e	in
	e	crrm	sw
	750	sw
minor2	n	minor1	w	u	out
	n	face1	e
	n	minor3	d	s	in
face1	n	minor2	w	u	out
minor3	n	minor2	n	u	o
	n	shaft4	s	d	in
shaft4	n	minor3	n	u	o
	n	tightp	s	d	in
tightp	n	shaft4	n	u	o
	n	face4	s	d	in
	n	edwrlm	e
face4	n	tightp	n	u	o
crrm	n	minor1	ne	u	o
	n	doomrm	w	in	d
doomrm	751	u	leap	o
edwrlm	n	tightp	w	u	out
	n	panora	se	in	d
minor5	n	shaft2	s	o	d
	n	sidpsg	n
	n	minor6	e	in
minor6	n	minor5	w	u	out
	n	face2	e
	dd	1054	s	d	in
face2	n	minor6	w	u	out
sidpsg	n	minor5	s	u	o
minor7	n	shaft3	n	u	o
	n	minor8	s	d	in
minor8	n	face3	e
	n	minor7	n	u	o
	e	peril1	s	d	in
	750	s	d	in
face3	n	minor8	w	u	out
peril1	n	minor8	n	u	o
	n	peril2	sw	w	s
peril2	n	peril1	n	ne	o
	n	peril3	e
peril3	n	peril1	n	nw	o
	n	peril2	w
	n	peril4	sw
peril4	n	peril2	nw
	n	peril1	n	o
	n	peril3	ne
	n	peril5	s
peril5	n	peril4	n	o
	n	peril3	ne
	n	peril2	nw
	n	ledge1	s
ledge1	n	ledge2	e	in
	n	bldg	leap
	e	peril5	n	o
	752	u
	750	n	u	o
ledge2	n	ledge1	w	o
	n	ledge3	e	in
	752	u
	n	bldg	leap
ledge3	n	ledge2	w	o
	752	u
	n	bldg	leap
bldg	f	dead43
	n	dwpst1	s	o
	752	u	n	ne	e	se	sw	w	nw
boledg	f	bldg
ufrst1	n	dwpst1	w	sw	o
	n	ufrst5	se	e
	752	nw	n	ne
	753	s	u
dwpst1	n	boledg	n
	n	panora	sw	u	o
	n	befcit	s
	n	ufrst1	se	e
	752	nw	ne
befcit	flood	dwpst1	n	ne	nw
	n	topcit	e	u
	flood	dwpst2	se	s
	flood	panora	sw	w	nw	o
	949	n	ne	nw	se	s	sw	w	nw	o
dwpst2	n	befcit	n	ne
	n	ufrst2	e
	n	ufrst3	se	s
	n	panora	nw	u	o
	752	sw	w
panora	dwarfs	0	nw	u	o
	n	edwrlm	nw	u	o
	n	dwpst1	ne
	n	befcit	e	in
	n	dwpst2	se	d
ufrst3	n	dwpst2	n	o
	n	ufrst2	ne
	n	spring	se
	752	e	s	sw	w	nw
spring	n	ufrst3	nw	o
	752	n	ne	e	se	s	sw	w
ufrst2	n	dwpst2	w	nw	o
	n	ufrst3	sw
	n	ufrst5	e	ne
	753	n	u
	752	se	s
topcit	n	befcit	w	d	o	leap
	gate	entrnc	e	in	u
	754	e	in	u
entrnc	n	dwstep	e	d	in	leap
	gate	topcit	w	o
	754	w	o
dwstep	dwarfs	dwhall	e	d	in	leap
	door	dwhall	e	d	in	leap
	50	e	d	in	leap
	n	entrnc	u	w	o
dwhall	n	lowps1	n
	n	lowps5	e
	n	guard1	s
	dwarfs	dwstep	w	o	u
	door	dwstep	w	o	u
	50	w	o	u
lowps1	n	lowps2	n
	n	dwktch	e
	n	dwhall	s	o
	dwarfs	dwfood	w	in
	door	dwfood	w	in
	50	w	in
lowps2	n	dwroom	n
	n	lowps3	e
	n	lowps1	s	o
	dwarfs	dwstre	w	in
	door	dwstre	w	in
	50	w	in
lowps3	n	dwbog	ne	u
	n	dwcant	e	in
	n	lowps2	w	o
dwfood	dwarfs	lowps1	e	o
	door	lowps1	e	o
	50	e	o
dwstre	dwarfs	lowps2	e	o
	door	lowps2	e	o
	50	e	o
dwroom	n	lowps2	s	o
dwbog	n	lowps3	sw	o	d
dwcant	n	lowps3	w
	n	lowps4	s
	dwarfs	dwktch	sw	o	in
	door	dwktch	sw	o	in
	50	sw	o	in
dwktch	n	dwpit	n	in	d	leap
	n	lowps1	w	o
	dwarfs	dwcant	ne	in
	door	dwcant	ne	in
	50	ne	in
dwpit	n	dwktch	u	o	s	leap
lowps4	n	dwcant	n
	dwarfs	dwrm1	s	o	in
	door	dwrm1	s	o	in
	50	s	o	in
dwrm1	n	lowps5	w	o
	dwarfs	lowps4	n	in
	door	lowps4	n	in
	50	n	in
lowps5	n	dwhall	w	o
	n	dwrm1	e	in
	n	lowps6	s
guard1	n	dwhall	n	o
	n	dwrm2	se
	dwarfs	dwrm2	s	in
	door	guard2	s	in
	50	s	in
guard2	dwarfs	guard1	n	o
	door	guard1	n	o
	50	n	o
	n	lowps7	s
	n	wpnstr	w	in
wpnstr	n	guard2	e	o
lowps7	n	guard2	n	o
	n	guard3	s
	dwarfs	guard2	w	in
	door	minrm	w	in
	50	w	in
minrm	n	guard4	s	in
	dwarfs	lowps7	e	o
	door	lowps7	e	o
	50	e	o
guard4	n	minrm	n	o
	dwarfs	minrm	s	in
	door	kingrm	s	in
	50	s	in
guard3	n	lowps7	n	o
	dwarfs	kingst	s	in
	door	kingst	s	in
	50	s	in
kingrm	n	kingst	e
	dwarfs	kingst	n	o
	door	guard4	n	o
	50	n	o
	n	kqdorm	sw	in
kqdorm	n	kingrm	ne	o	in
kingst	n	kingrm	w
	dwarfs	kingrm	n	o
	door	guard3	n	o
	50	n	o
	n	lowps8	s
lowps8	n	kingst	n	o
	dwarfs	ktreas	e	in
	door	ktreas	e	in
	50	e	in
ktreas	dwarfs	lowps8	w	o	in
	door	lowps8	w	o	in
	50	w	o	in
lowps6	n	lowps5	n	o
	n	dwrm3	e
	dwarfs	dwrm2	s	in
	door	dwrm2	s	in
	50	s	in
dwrm2	n	guard1	nw	o
	dwarfs	lowps6	n	in
	door	lowps6	n	in
	50	n	in
	n	dwrm4	s
dwrm3	n	lowps6	w	o
	dwarfs	dorm	s	in
	door	dorm	s	in
	50	s	in
dorm	n	odorm	s
	dwarfs	dwrm3	n	o	in
	door	dwrm3	n	o	in
	50	n	o	in
odorm	n	dorm	n	o
	dwarfs	lowps9	s	in
	door	lowps9	s	in
	50	s	in
dwrm4	n	dwrm2	n	o
	n	lowps9	e
	dwarfs	kdorm	s	in
	door	kdorm	s	in
	50	s	in
lowps9	n	dwrm4	w	o
	n	pdorm	s
	dwarfs	odorm	n	in
	door	odorm	n	in
	50	n	in
kdorm	n	pdorm	e	in
	dwarfs	dwrm4	n	o
	door	dwrm4	n	o
	50	n	o
pdorm	n	lowps9	n	o
	n	kdorm	w
ufrst5	n	ufrst1	nw	o
	n	ufrst2	sw
	753	w	u
	752	n	ne	e	se	s
stslop	n	rail1	s	se	out	swamp
	n	ndale	e
	n	nfrst5	ne	n	u
	n	beach4	nw	w	sw	d
ndale	n	rail2	s	swamp	out	d
	n	rail3	se
	n	paddck	e
	n	nfrst7	ne
	n	nfrst6	n	u
	n	nfrst5	nw
	n	stslop	w
	n	rail1	sw
paddck	n	rail4	s	se
	602	e
	n	ruin	ne
	n	nfrst7	n	u
	n	nfrst6	nw
	n	ndale	w
	n	rail3	sw	d	swamp	out
splair	sptrap	ruin	o
ruin	arachnid	splair	n	ne	e	se	s	sw	w	nw	u	d	in	o	swamp	jump
	web	paddck	s	sw	out	swamp	d
	web	nfrst7	nw	u	w	n
	940	s	sw	o	swamp	d	nw	u	w	n
	602	se	e	ne
nfrst5	n	stslop	s	out	d	swamp
	n	ndale	se
	n	nfrst6	e
	51	ne	n	nw	w	u
	n	beach4	sw
nfrst6	n	ndale	s	d	out	swamp	sw
	n	paddck	se
	n	nfrst7	e
	51	ne	n	nw	u
	n	nfrst5	w
nfrst7	n	paddck	s	out	swamp	d
	n	ruin	se	e
	602	e	ne
	51	n	nw
	n	nfrst6	w
	n	ndale	sw
hdland	n	ifrst5	nw	u
	n	cove	n	d
	boat	dead30	ne	e	se	s	sw	w
	510	ne	e	se	s	sw	w
cove	n	ifrst4	n	u
	n	fring	nw	w
	n	ifrst5	sw
	n	hdland	s
	boat	dead30	ne	e	se	d
	510	ne	e	se	d
ifrst1	n	ifrst2	n
	n	slope1	e	ne	u
	boat	dead30	se	s	sw	w	nw	d
	510	se	s	sw	w	nw	d
ifrst2	n	ifrst3	n
	n	slope4	u
	n	slope3	ne
	n	slope1	e
	n	ifrst1	s	d	se
	boat	dead30	sw	w	nw
	510	sw	w	nw
ifrst3	n	ifrst6	e	u
	n	slope4	se
	n	ifrst2	s	d
	boat	dead30	sw	w	nw	n	ne
	510	sw	w	nw	n	ne
ifrst4	n	rost	n	u	nw
	n	cove	s	d
	n	fring	sw
	n	slope2	w
	boat	dead30	ne	e	se
	510	ne	e	se
ifrst5	n	fring	n
	n	cove	ne	e
	n	hdland	se
	n	slope1	w	nw	u
	boat	dead30	s	sw	d
	510	s	sw	d
slope1	n	slope2	n	u
	n	fring	ne
	n	ifrst5	e	se
	n	ifrst2	w
	n	slope3	nw
	n	ifrst1	sw
	pegasus	467	s	d
	tub	468	s	d
	marble	469	s	d
	rug	470	s	d
	beast	471	s	d
	nanny	660	s	d
	boat	sea10	s	d
	511	s	d
fring	n	ifrst4	ne
	n	cove	e	se	d
	n	ifrst5	s
	n	slope1	sw	w
	n	slope2	n	u	nw
rost	n	ifrst4	s
	n	slope2	sw
	lizard	slope4	d	in
	slab	brost	d	in
	n	slope4	d
	n	ifrst6	w
	512	ne	n	nw	e	se
	parachute	dead31	jump
	dd	1055	jump
brost	n	rost	u	out
	container	983	d	sw	in
	pointer	983	d	sw	in
	violinbow	983	d	sw	in
	sword	dtest1	d	sw	in
	dd	1056	d	sw	in
dtest1	scythe	dtest2	d	sw	in
	dd	1057	d	sw	in
	n	brost	u	out	ne
dtest2	546	u	out
dtest3	door	treasc	n	out	in	swamp
	50	n	out	in	swamp
dtreas	n	rost	u	out
slope2	n	rost	n	ne	u
	n	ifrst4	e
	n	fring	se	d
	n	slope1	s	sw
	n	slope3	w
	n	slope4	nw
slope3	n	slope4	nw	n	u
	n	slope2	e	ne
	n	slope1	se	s
	n	ifrst2	sw	w	d
slope4	n	ifrst6	n	ne
	n	rost	u	e
	n	slope2	se
	n	slope3	s
	n	ifrst2	sw
	n	ifrst3	w	nw	d
ifrst6	n	rost	e	u	se
	n	slope4	s	sw
	n	ifrst3	w	d
	boat	dead30	nw	n	ne
	510	nw	n	ne
srock1	n	bch2	n
	n	srock2	s
	pegasus	467	nw	w
	tub	468	nw	w
	marble	469	nw	w
	rug	470	nw	w
	beast	471	nw	w
	nanny	660	nw	w
	boat	sea1	nw
	boat	sea2	w
	dd	1058	ne	e	se	sw	w	nw
srock2	n	srock1	n
	n	srock3	s
	pegasus	467	w	sw	nw
	tub	468	w	sw	nw
	marble	469	w	sw	nw
	rug	470	w	sw	nw
	beast	471	w	sw	nw
	nanny	660	w	sw	nw
	boat	sea2	nw
	boat	sea4	w	sw
	dd	1058	ne	e	se	sw	w	nw
srock3	n	srock2	n
	n	inlet	se
	pegasus	467	w	sw	nw	s
	tub	468	w	sw	nw	s
	marble	469	w	sw	nw	s
	rug	470	w	sw	nw	s
	beast	471	w	sw	nw	s
	nanny	660	w	sw	nw	s
	boat	sea4	nw
	boat	sea5	w	sw	s
	dd	1058	ne	e	s	sw	w	nw
inlet	n	srock3	nw	out
	pegasus	467	w	sw
	tub	468	w	sw
	marble	469	w	sw
	rug	470	w	sw
	beast	471	w	sw
	nanny	660	w	sw
	boat	sea5	w	sw
	n	nest	u	e
	214	n	ne	se	s
nest	n	inlet	d	jump	w	out
vrocks	pegasus	467	e	se	ne	out	sw	s
	tub	468	e	se	ne	out	sw	s
	marble	469	e	se	ne	out	sw	s
	rug	470	e	se	ne	out	sw	s
	beast	471	e	se	ne	out	sw	s
	nanny	660	e	se	ne	out	sw	s
	boat	sea6	e	se	ne	out
	boat	sea7	sw
	boat	sea15	s
	boat	dead20	w	nw
	511	e	se	ne	out	w	nw	s
	dd	1058	sw
	n	deck	n	u
crow	n	deck	d	e	out
	dd	1059	jump
deck	n	stpoop	e
	n	hold	d
	n	vrocks	s	out
	n	capt	ne	in
	n	crow	u	w
stpoop	n	deck	d	w	out
	n	poop	u	e	in
poop	n	stpoop	d	w	out
capt	n	deck	sw	out
	n	galley	d	in
galley	torch	dead37	d	in
	n	proom	d	in
	n	capt	u	out
proom	n	galley	u	out
hold	n	deck	u	out
bwfall	parachute	bch2	out	w
	dd	1052	out	w
	n	spiral	e	u
spiral	n	bwfall	d	out	w
	n	vert	u	in
vert	n	spiral	d	out
	n	revrm	u	in	e
revrm	n	vert	d	out	w
	crack	fossrm	e	in
	n	revps	n	in
revps	n	revrm	s	out
	n	grotto	n	in
grotto	n	revps	s	out
	~parachute	beach	jump
	-13	jump
	52	w	nw	sw
fossrm	crack	revrm	w	out
root	n	wfrst1	u	out
	rootview	rtun1	n
	157	n
	n	tunnel	s
altar	rootview	rtun2	s	out
	157	s	out
	n	antech	e	in
rtun1	torch	ydead1	n	in	out	s
	rootview	rtun2	n	in
	rootview	root	s	out
	156	s	n	in	out
rtun2	torch	ydead1	s	n	in	out
	rootview	rtun1	s	out
	rootview	altar	n	in
	156	s	n	in	out
antech	n	altar	w	out
	door	temple	e	in
	221	e
temple	door	antech	w	out
	n	hchamb	in	n
	213	e	u
	221	w	out
hchamb	n	temple	s	out
tunnel	n	root	n	out
	n	lgrm	se
lgrm	n	tunnel	nw	out
	n	estlpl	w
	n	wolfrm	e
	tub	60	s	d
	n	sloptn	s	d
wolfrm	n	lgrm	w	out
	wolf	deathp	d	in	e
	230	d	in	e
deathp	n	wolfrm	u	out	w
	crucifix	diamnd	d	e	in
	n	cinder	d	e	in
cinder	n	deathp	u	w	out
	door	hotpas	e	in
diamnd	n	deathp	u	w	out
	door	hotpas	e	in
hotpas	door	cinder	w	out
	n	firept	in	e
firept	n	hotpas	w	out
	dd	1060	d	jump
estlpl	n	lgrm	e	out
	pool	wstlpl	w	in
	dd	1061	w	in
wstlpl	pool	estlpl	e	out
	dd	1061	e	out
level	tub	60	n	u	out
	n	sloptn	n	u	out
	n	mudrm	s	d	in
mudrm	n	level	n	u	out
	mud	schamb	e	in
sloptn	n	level	s	d
	n	lgrm	n	u	out
schamb	mud	mudrm	w	out
tombrm	tomb	maze25	u	out
	statue	rottrm	s	in
	dd	1062	s	in
rottrm	n	tombrm	n	out
	n	cavein	w	in
cavein	statue	rottrm	e	out
	dd	1062	e	out
	e	temple	d	w
	212	d	w
ydead1	n	ydead3	n
dead10	n	dead11	n
ydead3	n	ydead4	n
yrdead	n	ydead1	n
dead16	n	dead19	n
dead11	n	dead15	n
dead15	n	dead16	n
ydead4	n	ydead5	n
ydead5	n	ydead8	n
ydead8	n	dead10	n
dead19	n	dead20	n
dead20	n	dead23	n
dead23	n	dead27	n
dead27	n	dead28	n
dead28	n	dead29	n
dead29	n	dead30	n
dead30	n	dead31	n
dead31	n	dead33	n
dead33	n	dead34	n
dead34	n	dead37	n
dead37	n	dead39	n
dead39	n	dead40	n
dead40	n	dead41	n
dead41	n	dead43	n
dead43	n	yrdead	n
*text	1600
@txttxt
15	*HINTS:
	 If you want to see underground, light a stick from a fire.
	 If you want to score points for treasure, drop it in the swamp.
	 The swamp can be found by typing SWAMP outside until you reach it.
	 OUT normally moves you in the direction of the start.
	 If you're carrying a lit stick, look out for marsh gas.
	 Just type the answers to the mausoleum questions straight, eg 45.
	 Brollies make good parachutes.
	 Dryads are combustible.
	 The shrine, hallowed chamber and ancient chamber are good places in
		which to meditate.
	 Beggars deserve to be kicked.
	If you think these hints can be improved, type SUGGESTION and say
	what you think's wrong.
50	The door's shut, can't you see you berk?
51	The forest becomes too dense to go any farther. You give up and turn
	back.
52	As you approach the edge of the cliff the rock starts to crumble.
	Hurriedly you retreat as you feel the ground begin to give way under
	your feet!
53	You can't fit through that small serving hatch!
54	There's a whopping great big stone wall in the way!
55	The water here is flowing too fast for you to ford the river safely.
60	The barrel is too wide to fit through the opening.
61	The barrel upturns and smashes, but its contents have mysteriously
	disappeared...
62	The reddish water splooshes out of the barrel as you drop the thing,
	but seeps into the earthy walls at an alarming rate, and is soon gone.
	Very little goes down the steps.
63	The water splooshes out of the barrel when you let it go, and laps up
	against the porous walls. You suddenly become witness to an incredible
	sight as the dry mud absorbs the water incredibly quickly, and falls
	off to join the general mud on the floor. A short while later, a small
	chamber to the east can be seen which was previously obscured by its
	bizarre covering.
64	The barrel's smashed remains crash loudly to the floor.
65	The east wall sounds hollow.
66	The mud is incredibly hard, as if baked on, and will not yield to any
	of your attempts at breaking it.
69	The mud is too gooey to carry around. It's useless even if you could!
70	The gooey mud makes a squelching sound...
71	The dryad wails in agony as your axe bites deep into its trunk, and
	flails its branches around desperately trying to keep you off. Your
	chop, however, was sufficient to finish it, and it crashes to the
	ground and disappears whence it came.
72	The dryad instantly falls back, but too late and your torch takes
	hold. A few seconds later, all that remains is the smouldering ash
	that once was alive, then this, too, disappears whence it came.
73	The climb is too tight and precarious for you to be able to drop
	anything here.
74	The conch emits a low reverberation, but it's not very loud.
75	The conch emits a low reverberation, which resonates with the
	sound of the waterfall. As you blow harder, it gets louder until
	it becomes almost deafening, then suddenly there is a tremendous
	> CRACK < and the east wall of the room splits apart to reveal
	a dark, eerie room.
76	The conch emits a low, but loud, reverberation.
77	From the end of your wand leaps a particularly vicious bolt of
	vivid green lightning, which strikes the dryad with a hollow crack.
	A trice later, and nothing remains of the unfortunate creature...
78	The beggar senses that you are about to zap him and leaps up to
	defend himself. However, the electric glow which dances from the
	end of your wand soon puts an end to his wretched life, and his
	smouldering rags are the last evidence of his time in the Land...
79	The tomb is too stiff to open directly.
80	With your combined strength, the grate slides open.
81	The grate is already open, dunderhead!
82	Pushing and heaving together, you slide the grate shut.
83	It's already shut! Take a look if you don't believe me!
84	The grate is too difficult to open or close alone, get someone to help
	you.
85	The grate is slid closed, try opening it...
86	Ughhh...
87	From the end of your rod flashes a scarlet ray of immense power. You
	shield your eyes from the incredible intensity, and when you next
	look, the tree has been felled.
89	The door is too strong to break, even when you use the weapon.
102	You wave the rattle to and fro and it makes a rattling noise!
104	With a great deal of effort you make the bed.
105	Chop, chop, chop . . . >creak<  >groan< . . . >crack<
	"TIMBERRRRRRRRRR" with a tremendous >CRASH< the aged tree falls
	majestically to the ground. As the dust settles you notice that the
	stump of the Yew is hollow, but the shadows are too deep for you to
	see far down the hole. It looks descendable though...
106	A hollow sound reverberates from the trunk of the tree.
107	OK, it's unfurled.
108	OK, it's furled.
111	With the most earshattering squealling and groaning the top of the
	tomb slides to one side. Revealing a staircase..
112	The tomb is already open, stupid!
113	The tomb shows no signs of activity.
114	The ground is too hard for the swamp to swallow you up here.
120	The weather has swollen the river and you cannot cross!
116	You can't climb bushy trees like yews! Maybe you could from INSIDE...
117	The ox mechanistically lows a loud "MOO".
118	The beggar moans as your foot smashes into his face.
119	The beggar wants people to feed him with food, not make token gifts
	of paltry goods the wretch finds useless.
167	The beggar eagerly accepts your food, then drops it in astonishment as
	the individual potatoes turn to gold in his hands! "Praise the gods, a
	miracle!" you think, hastily pushing the beggar out of the way and
	collecting the treasure. "I preferred them before," thinks the beggar,
	sorrowfully.
121	The ox is dead.
122	The ox isn't hungry, it just wants a bit of love.
123	Oxen are renowned for their dislike of suspicious herbs...
124	The eye loosens in its socket and tumbles out.
125	The gods don't appear to be listening.
126	With a great deal of fun you unmake the bed.
127	A dazzling ray sparks in a multitude of brilliant colours from the
	end of your wand, and the door is blasted to oblivion. The doorway
	itself is now passable.
128	Everything around you grows hazy, and merges into a swirling display
	of magical colours and shapes, and you feel your wand slip from your
	hand. Suddenly, the vivid chromatic opaqueness clears, and you
	re-materialise...
129	Just because there's a window there, it doesn't mean you have to go
	jump out of it, clod!
130	It was a very old ox and hadn't long to live anyway.
133	It's already dead you steaming great nit!
134	The ox isn't in a condition to eat at the moment...
135	The tree won't chop any further. Sorry if you were trying to make
	brands out of it, but it wouldn't burn anyway (it may be hollow, but
	it's still got lots of resin in it).
136	chop, chop, chop . . . >creak<  >groan< . . .
137	The tree is felled so climbing it is rather pointless...
138	The pool starts freezing over the instant your icicles make contact.
	As it hardens, it expands, but not enough to do any damage. The way
	across is now safe.
140	In these parts, it is too dangerous to swim in flowing water. A more
	likely place would be a pool, perhaps underground.
141	Worship in these parts is customarily conducted near idols, usually
	their eyes if there are precious stones there.
142	This is a MASSIVE idol! Worshipping it from here isn't good enough! Go
	up the steps you buffoon!
143	THE STAIRS GO NO FURTHER! Read the description, stupid!
144	The ox lows a loud "MOO" as you grab it by the horns and start
	dragging it.
145	The ogre leaps up to pound you with his club, but doesn't understand
	axes and you hack him to pieces.
146	The ogre grabs hold of the leg and starts gnawing at it ferociously.
147	The ogre glares at you and snarls. Ogres only eat dead flesh...
148	The ogre isn't in a mood to accept at present...
149	A brilliant flash of lightning erupts from the end of your wand and
	strikes the ogre in its chest. The smell of burned ogre fills the room.
150	"To be sure, I'm not hungry!" quips the leprechaun.
151	As you attack the leprechaun your blow goes straight through him
	without so much as harming his green tunic. "Bejabers, mortal weapons
	can't hurt the loikes of me!" he exclaims.
152	"I hope you'll be keeping your eyes off my gold, beghorra!" says
	the leprechaun, preventing your removal of his treasure.
153	Kicking and screaming wildly the leprechaun attempts vainly to
	escape from your grasp. "'Tis not fair!" he wails as you tuck him
	under your arm out of the way.
154	A dazzling red beam of light shoots from the end of your wand, and
	when you look again the leprechaun has disintigrated quite noticibly!
155	The windows are to provide light for you, not a vehicle for suicide
	attempts! The window is much too small in this room anyway...
156	You find your way blocked after a sudden fire and cave-in.
157	The way is blocked after a fire lead to a cave-in, twit...
159	You put your foot into the pool, but are suddenly stung with pain and
	withdraw quickly. The water seems very hot, although not boiling.
160	How can you swim pools frozen over solid? You have some STRANGE ideas...
161	The cupboard opens off its latch.
162	There isn't a latch this side of the cupboard, and you find you can't
	open it! Someone outside will have to do it.
163	The cupboard swings to, and latches itself shut.
164	To go up or down, say u or d. Do you think we put in commands like
	this for nothing?!
166	The cupboard is latched already, it won't latch any more!
165	The cupboard is open already if you hadn't noticed...
190	You need an axe (or wand) to fell a tree.
170	Try as you might, some strange magical force appears to prevent your
	removing either the bed or the bedclothes, although you could
	probably re-arrange the sheets if you wished.
173	The mattress of the bed is very hard and uncomfortable, so you get
	off it almost straight away.
174	Waving the brand causes it to go out.
175	Closer examination of an object does not reveal further information
	about it. You'll have to use your wits!
176	Oxen are beasts of burden. They leave giving rides to animals like
	horses and donkeys.
178	The icicle melts and soon evaporates.
179	The pool is too large to melt even partly.
180	The ox is very old, I'm afraid, and you soon realise that it would
	be as tough as old boots were you to attempt to eat it.
181	The tree has only recently been felled, so unfortunately you can't
	set it alight.
182	Living yew trees don't catch fire that easily above ground, I'm
	afraid!
191	When you put the head in place, a trapdoor opens in the floor!
192	The head is already on the wall, fool.
193	As you take the head, the trapdoor in the floor closes.
194	The head is fixed to the wall, but you could take it off if you
	said so...
195	The trapdoor leading up to the hut seems to be locked by some means.
196	The river flows from under the mountain here, so you can't follow it.
197	The eye appears to be fixed into its socket, and refuses to come
	loose.
198	The tunnel is too small to turn round in, so you can only move forwards.
199	You can't go in there taking along an ox!
200	You can't get the pillar through there! You'll have to take the ladder.
201	The pillar is too big to take with you through the crack.
202	With your combined strength, the portcullis raises!
203	It's already up, you imbecile!
204	It's too difficult for one person to lift. You'll have to get someone to
	help you, from the same side.
205	Silently, the portcullis glides shut.
206	It's already closed! Do you want to slam it through the floor or
	something?!
207	The equipment falls into the room below, and lands almost immediately.
208	If the tunnel has collapsed it means you can't enter. I'm saying this
	because it seems you haven't the mental capacity to understand the
	description given when you LOOK. Idiot.
209	What kind of an idiot ARE you? We don't have that sort of thing
	going on in THIS Land! Since wolfsbane isn't designed to be smoked
	you come out of it feeling pretty ill, too. Fortunately, this is a magic
	herb and regenerates itself. Now this time do something sensible with
	it, you dope...
210	You can't pick up a carpet like that! You'll have to roll it up first.
211	The carpet slowly rises into the air, and the colours of your
	surroundings blend together in a flood of bright ribbons and
	streaks. A second later, and you materialise once more.
212	You'll have to drop everything you're holding before you can
	get down that chute!
213	I do beg your pardon for not making the description clearer: THE
	CHUTE IS IMPOSSIBLE TO ASCEND. Better?
214	The beach is cut off by the sea and cliff that way, forming a cove.
215	The sea is that way, and it's too far to the wreck to swim. Looks like
	you'll have to find a boat...
216	Your carpet rolls up easily.
217	It's already rolled up!
218	Your carpet unrolls. It doesn't look as valuable in this state.
219	Take another look, pal, it's already unrolled...
220	The door isn't open, you blithering idiot. SOME people...
221	It's a CRIMSON door, not an OPEN one.
222	You can't make something freeze something else. Try dropping the
	icicles into the pool instead...
224	You'll have to fix it onto the wall first.
225	For some strange reason you find yourself unable to get any treasure
	here. There may be some confusion in this room as to whether certain
	items are treasure or not (hint hint). Try getting stuff individually...
226	Some magical force drags the ring back to the floor irresistibly as
	you try to take it.
227	The ancient fossil slides into the brass ring, and disappears as you
	watch. The ring then transmutes to gold before your eyes, and becomes
	incredibly beautiful. The magic holding it to the floor goes too! Looks
	like you're in luck, chum!
228	The wand gives a perfunctory >PHUT< and disappears. To save you from
	wondering, it was the firestone it didn't like...
229	You need a magic wand with which to zap things, and you've not got
	one so nothing happens.
230	As you attempt to enter the passage, the wolf snarls, menacingly.
	Hastily you retreat, as the straggled, grey hair of the mangy beast
	rises up on its neck as a sign of anger.
231	The wolf shies away from you the instant you produce the herb. The
	next moment, it bays a terrible "AAAOOOOOOHHHH" and disappears!
232	The wolf devours your wand...
233	The wolf is a carnivore, which means it's more interested in eating
	YOU...
234	You don't honestly believe a beast as murderous as a wolf is going
	to go for walkies do you? Sigh...
235	The wand waves, but nothing magical happens! Perhaps you have something
	else magical which the wand dislikes? Or could it be somewhere nearby?
	(I'd better not say any more or I'll be telling you what it is...).
236	You wave furiously but no-one waves back...
237	The ox mechanistically explodes a loud "BOOM".
238	An intense white glow sprays from the end of your wand, and when
	it stops you discover that the portcullis has exceptionally vapourised.
	The air around you, however, seems to grow thin, and the scene fades
	away as some necromantic side-effect teleports you through space, and
	you re-materialise...somewhere...
239	The grate glows white as an infra-red ray generated by your wand
	causes it to heat immediately. A second later and it is gone - and
	so are you (to the fitted cupboard).
240	() GLOOP (). The fiery pit consumes anything which is dropped in it.
241	The pit may be fiery, but you can't ignite anything from it because
	the flames flash away too quickly.
243	You've got to be or have been an Enchanter to be able to use such
	a powerful magical feature of the wand. Since you're not that
	experienced yet, nothing happens.
244	You need a pen to be able to write.
246	Your message is written into the logbook, but the pen falls apart
	afterwards. You feel proud to have left your mark on The Land.
247	Very pretty, I am sure...
248	Fortunately, a sudden attack of common sense prevents your drowning
	yourself by getting rid of the boat whilst at sea...
250	How do you propose to blast something which hasn't got a fuse? Nothing
	happens...
251	>< KAPOW ><
	The door is no more! Neither is the powder for that matter...
252	The gunpowder gives a fizz but nothing else happens.
253	What?! Blasting things when there's gunpowder here with no fuse in it?
	You're taking a risk! Fortunately, the gods inform you of the
	suicidal outcome of your act and refrain you from doing it. Good of
	them, isn't it?
254	The fuse fixes itself in so hard that it is impossible to remove it. It
	seems to be stuck to some internal flint, so that you may be able to
	blast things with the powder...
255	You reach out, but suddenly the golden egg you are carrying starts to
	hum, and a powerful magical force interposes between your hands and
	what you wish to get. After a few seconds trying, you have to give up.
256	When you attempt to drop the egg it starts to hum, and a powerful
	magical force causes your fingers to grip it all the more tightly. You
	find it is impossible to drop it.
257	The egg hums, and falls into the pit with a happy () GLOOP ().
258	This is a golden egg, not a hard-boiled one. Nothing happens.
259	Nice try, but it doesn't work! If the egg is magical, it will probably
	need a much greater amount of heat before it'll allow you to drop it...
260	The egg starts to hum, but figures the fire isn't hot enough for its
	tastes and won't let you drop it. You'll need something a little
	hotter before it will let you get rid of it. Or, of course, you could
	give it to someone...
261	Someone who is no longer a novice, such as yourself, should find it
	beneath themself to play with TOYS...
262	As you attempt to let go of the object, you find to your horror that
	it adheres to your fingers! Try as you might, you find you cannot drop
	it or otherwise rid yourself of its presence. Maybe it's something else
	you're holding which is magical? You might have to give it away...
263	The ogre is already dead. Killing it again won't make the least bit of
	difference.
270	The way is blocked by the sliding panel.
271	Some strange, invisible, magical barrier blocks the way, and you can't
	get past it.
272	The river goes underneath the mountains (it flows east to west) and
	you cannot follow it.
273	The robust door in the way easily prevents your moving in that
	direction.
274	The powder has to have a fuse in it before it's any use fixing it
	to the cannon.
275	The cannon is now primed.
276	The cannon is now loaded and primed.
277	You need to put gunpowder into the cannon before you can shoot it.
278	Cannons require the insertion of some spherical projectile before
	they'll shoot.
279	Out from the end of the cannon flies the sphere, and it smashes into
	the robust door with an almighty >| CRASH |< . When the smoke clears,
	both door and sphere are gone...
280	Don't you know ANYTHING? You have to put gunpowder in these things
	first! Silly!
281	The balls starts to roll away, then the platinum scrapes off and it
	stops. The platinum disappears, with more than a hint at the involvement
	of some sort of magic...
282	the ball is magically prevented from rolling away.
283	The door remains locked shut.
284	A ray of intense yellow light streaks from the end of your wand. After
	it stops, however, the door remains intact. You notice this as you
	dematerialise...
285	The fountain changes colour to yellow, and you suddenly feel more
	relaxed, confident and sure of yourself than when you did before you
	entered...
286	You get wet.
287	You can't open the door from this side! Read the description!
288	There's no keyhole this side of the door...
289	You can't pick up goblins!
291	The goblins surround you so that you can't escape.
292	The goblins surround you, and poke their fingers into you so that you
	can't open anything because of the distractions.
293	There are so many goblins here that it looks impossible to destroy
	them. Your wand starts to throb, and to glow with a deep blue light
	which turns into a flashing violet. Suddenly, a scything red ray
	cuts from the end and slices through all the goblins as it bites through
	the air. They fall to the ground, clawing at whatever they have left for
	heads, and your wand glows black with their blood.
294	You can't get a proper grip on the panel to be able to move it.
295	The panel slides...
296	It's already been slid open, idiot!
297	I appreciate your closing doors behind you, but this one's shut already.
298	The panel slides open.
299	The panel slides shut.
300	\ KAZAM / - the panel disappears!
301	Drinking when there's a barrel of putrid water here is unwise, you
	might catch something!
302	OK!
303	Out from the end of the cannon flies the ball, but it misses the door
	and smashes into the wall. Unfortunately, the damage to the wall is
	minimal, and when the smoke clears the ball has disappeared... Next
	time you'll know to shoot the door with the cannon...
304	*The scroll reads as follows:
	"From beneath the crystal curtain,
	 Salt to west and hard to cross,
	 Go south to the death so certain,
	 Though follow me and have no loss...
	 South again, the danger stronger,
	 Once more, or you feel the spray,
	 Travel on that way no longer,
	 Southeast, else you slip away."
305	You can't read in the dark, berk.
306	The scroll ignites, and a few seconds later its ashes scatter to the
	winds.
309	The quill doesn't work for some reason.
310	It's a pretty robust icicle. You'll have to melt it with a torch or
	something.
311	The bunny happily disappears into the warren, and you get a warm
	feeling inside that you have done something really worthwhile.
312	The bunny kicks a little, but its resistance is futile as you
	bash its brains in.
313	The bunny sniffs the herb, then eats it all up.
314	Rabbits don't eat potatoes (well this one doesn't anyway!).
315	The dead rabbit falls into the hole, but not out of reach.
316	It's already been murdered!
317	You can't eat LIVE animals! Ugh!
318	It was a bit stringy, but not bad.
319	The beggar wants to be fed with food. If you've got some, try
	phrasing it differently.
320	The bunny isn't hungry.
321	The rabbit's fur catches fire with astonishing speed, and a second
	or two later, all that is left are charred remains which you throw
	away in disgust.
322	'Fraid it's too heavy, old bean. These mariner types don't mess
	around with itsy-bitsy sized notebooks, you know!
323	Out from the end of your wand flashes a blinding scarlet bolt of
	power, which atomises the fiend in no uncertain terms.
324	The undead interposes itself and prevents your action.
326	The bunny suddenly turns savage and you daren't.
327	Berk.
329	There's no place to hang it. Look for somewhere with other trophies
	on the wall instead.
330	You climb as far as you can, and come down again when you hit your
	head on the ceiling.
331	You suddenly feel all funny, there is a puff of smoke, and to your
	dismay you find that you have become female.
332	You begin to feel weird, there is a sudden flash of light, and to
	your surprise you find you have become male.
333	He doesn't want to be got.
334	It dives into the pond and hides under a rock when you try to get it
	and only comes back to the surface after you stop.
336	It tastes of warts.
337	All of a sudden there is a flash of deep blue light, and the frog
	transforms into a handsome prince!
338	He politely tells you to clear off before he bashes you in the face.
339	There is a sudden radiance about the man, and your heart cries out
	for him when suddenly he becomes hazy and disappears before you can
	suggest anything else. Sobbing because of your lost love, you
	nevertheless grit your teeth, forget it, and soon feel better!
340	He suddenly glows, then becomes hazy and disappears before you can
	clobber him one. Your swinging sword meets thin air (and doesn't kill
	that, either).
341	It's too shallow. Can't you read, you short-sighted loon?
342	The tunnel has collapsed and you can't move.
343	The creature of the night mindlessly accepts the leg, gnaws at it, then
	moans a long chilling scream and disappears in a puff of green fumes.
	You find the teethmarks have gone from the leg when you examine it
	afterwards...
345	rabbit dropped
346	The sleeping beauty remains asleep, her enchantment unaffected by a
	kiss from a female due to the witch who cast the spell noting that she
	had many sisters and no brothers...
347	The sleeping beauty's eyes start to open, she sits up, yawns, kisses
	you again, then there is a flash of purple light and she disappears. You
	are naturally upset by this, but the kiss was so good as for you to
	feel much better as a result of the experience!
348	Her eyes open, and she starts to fight back!
349	The door won't open.
350	It's too difficult for one person to lift, you'll have to get someone to
	help you.
351	With your combined strength, you slide the bookcase aside.
352	It's already been opened, why don't you LOOK?
353	With your combined strength, you slide the bookcase against the wall.
354	It's already against the wall, take a look stupid.
355	The bookcase slides aside easily revealing an opening.
356	The bookcase slides up against the wall.
357	The grate slides open.
358	The grate slides closed.
360	Tap...tap...tap...
361	All of a sudden there is a swirl of magical colours, and before you
	can think, a flood a bright reds and greens whirl around, then part.
	You find you have been teleported somehow...
366	You find that you cannot lift the vial more than a few inches. You could
	just about drink some of it though... Not that I'm trying to give
	you any hints.
367	You sniff the heavenly vapour, then everything swirls about you, the
	crystals disappear, and you black out. You'll be able to wake up in
	ten seconds time - meanwhile you have become female!
368	You take a whiff of the divine aroma, then the crystals vanish,
	everything goes black, and you pass out. You'll be able to wake yourself
	in about ten seconds, but in the meantime you have become male!
369	They tasted kinda salty.
371	They're COLOURED crystals, pill-head. We don't have that sort of
	substance around in THIS land!
372	The dirt comes off easily, and you find that the groats are really
	made of gold and are very valuable!
373	Rub...rub...rub... Nothing happens.
376	The pancake flies into the air, spins over, and lands perfectly in
	the pan, which then crumbles to dust. You get a lot of fun out of
	this obvious demonstration of mankind's superiority over pancakes.
374	You pick up the pan, but the further you move it, the harder it
	becomes, until you have to put it down again. You can't even
	get the pancake from the pan! There is something magical about
	this...
377	You try to pick up the pancake to take a bite, but it grows
	incredibly heavy and you have to drop it before being able to
	take a mouthfull (and probably contracting botulism).
378	You think that were you to leap then perhaps you'd splat in the sands
	below unless you had a parachute.
379	The horse decides not to bother flying, since when it flies it comes
	here anyway. You might try riding it instead.
380	The wand doesn't fit. Perhaps something a little smaller, like a stick?
383	You obviously haven't read the description...
384	A curious radiance surrounds the sundial, then suddenly an amazing beam
	of light scythes from it and hits you square in the chest. A feeling of
	power floods through your body, and when you look again, the stick in
	the dial has gone.
385	The skies are too overcast to enable the sundial to cast a strong
	enough shadow by which you could tell the time.
386	It's already got a brand in it, birdbrain.
387	You can't put a lit brand in there or you'll burn your hand!
388	The brand fixes solidly into the sundial, in fact so solidly that you
	won't be able to take it out. It looks like the sundial will work now.
389	You can't burn sundials, stupid; they're not made out of marshmallow
	you know...
390	The sundial's pointer burns away with incredible speed, until there
	is just the stone part of the object left.
392	As you try to crawl down, something inside the sett claws at your face
	and you are forced to retreat hastily back to the surface.
393	As you enter the glade, your axe suddenly becomes unbearably hot, and
	you stagger back out of the glade, where it magically cools within an
	instant.
394	The horse refuses to acquaint itself with anyone dragging along an ox.
395	The stallion flies out of reach until you stop trying to kill it.
396	The stallion grows hazy and transparent, then with a loud "NEIGH" flies
	off back whence it came.
397	The stallion neighs a loud "NEIGH" as you take it by the mane and start
	dragging it.
398	You get onto the back of the winged stallion, and it rears up on its
	hind legs, neighs a loud "NEIGH", and flies off, passing with ease
	through all interposing solid bodies. A few seconds later it lands, and
	you dismount...
399	You'll have to get the horse first.
400	The horse won't let you get on its back, probably because of something
	you're holding or which is nearby.
401	The winged stallion will not let you, and rears up on its hind legs
	dashing its hooves perilously close to your head until you stop.
402	This isn't the proper place to bath it.
403	The gull suddenly stops moving, becomes hard, and an instant later
	has changed colour too and become solid gold.
404	Nothing happens, since gold birds don't get too dirty.
405	The bird is not hungry. Few creatures in The Land are...
406	You can't feed golden birds!
407	You can't kill a solid gold bird, berk!
408	It wasn't much fun, really, it didn't put up much of a fight.
409	Fool, you'll break your teeth if you bite gold!
410	The feathers and beak weren't too tasty, but the rest was passable.
411	The bird flutters out of reach every time you try to remove a feather.
412	You can't pluck birds made of gold, imbecile!
413	The bird refuses to be dropped in the nest of an eagle. If the owner
	came back it would get ripped to bits!
414	The gull refuses to allow you to drop it in such a hot place. Do you
	think it's stupid or something?
415	The bird doesn't fancy diving below freshwater, but it wouldn't mind
	the sea if you REALLY want to get rid of it.
416	The lion lands on its side, and points nowhere.
417	The lion lands on its base and points southeast.
418	The lion lands on its base and points northwest.
419	The lion lands on its base and points south.
420	The lion lands on its base and points north.
421	The lion lands on its base and points northeast.
422	The lion lands on its base and points southwest.
423	The lion lands on its base and points west.
424	The lion lands on its base and points east.
425	The lion lands on its base and points north.
426	The lion lands on its base and points south.
427	Are you trying to kill the poor thing? It just needs bathing, not
	drowning...
428	The gull you are holding flaps its wings and creates such a fuss that
	you can't enter the hut. It doesn't like the stuffed animals in there.
429	The water isn't drinkable, loon.
430	You flap you arms a bit, but cannot fly. Most normal people wouldn't
	be surprised by this...
434	You reach for the cat, but the bird you are holding squawks loudly
	and flaps its wings about your head until you have to stop and leave
	the cat where it is.
435	The bird flies out of reach, and lands again when you give up. It
	doesn't like cats, dead or alive...
437	The ivy is stuck on tightly. You can't get it, burn it, or do anything
	else to it. To be honest, it's only there to make the description
	better. Concentrate on the sundial instead.
438	In goblin rooms, it's difficult to define things as treasure. Get
	the objects individually...
439	Out from the end of your wand springs a dazzling green ray, and out
	of the wall springs an equally dazzling red one. They meet in mid-air
	and obliterate one another. The wall looks to be enchanted...
440	It's no use fixing that there, try something more regular in shape
	and more like a pointer.
441	You can't go in there taking a horse with you!
442	The ornament smashes into tiny shards as it strikes the floor, and
	is lost forever. And don't try to pick up the shards as they're so
	small you can hardly see them...
445	You can't do that unless you have the magic mirror...
446	The mirror fogs over, then clears and you can see through it...
447	The mirror cracks, and the image fades. You look at the glass and it
	clouds over, turning to solid silver!
448	The mirror doesn't break. Ah well that's 7 years bad luck you won't get.
449	You can't drop the mirror while using it. Break it first.
450	You see your reflection...
451	>>>>>SPARE<<<<<
452	You aren't powerful enough yet. You must be at least a necromancer or
	necromancess.
453	The hound is incensed and attacks you!
454	Your spell didn't work; a magic amulet would have helped.
455	You need to be at least a sorcerer or sorceress to employ such a
	powerful artifact.
456	As you speak the final word, a demonic vibration resonates through the
	amulet, and it crumbles to dust.
457	Your spell didn't work; either try again, get more points, or use the
	oracle...
458	The oracle answers no more...
459	The oracle's magic is too strong for you: only enchanters,
	enchantresses and above can use the device.
460	The only mirror in The Land is a magic one, which you can't steal
	because of its enchantment...
461	Some unseen, diabolic force prevents your hand from being able to
	write. It seems to increase the nearer you are to the libram.
462	*The libram is old, musty, and has many pages missing, but you can
	make out some illuminated letters:
	"POTION: a draught mixed with medicine is something to be experienced.
	 CRYSTALS: take one sniff to be something you've always wanted.
	 RUNES:	read them to be in many places at once.
	 DIE:	the higher the roll, the more its value.
	 CAT:	do as your curiosity directs.
	 DOOR:	be polite when entering.
	Operating instructions:
	 ORACLE: 'where object' eg 'where crown'.
	 AMULET: 'force someone: do something' eg 'force Polly: south'.
	 MIRROR: 'watch someone', eg 'watch Richard'. To stop, break it.
	 HORN: 'summon someone', eg 'summon Brian', unless they've a firestone."
	Another page is about a magic wand, but it's unreadable.
463	Not surprisingly, you slip back. Don't you read descriptions or
	something?
464	You tug at the lever, then suddenly the floor beneath you opens up,
	and you fall down into a polished chute. The trap quickly resets, and
	you find yourself hurtling downwards at a furious pace!
465	It's immobile, but the floor below you seems hollow.
466	There is a hollow echo from the floor beneath the lever.
467	The horse refuses to set to sea.
468	You can't carry that barrel with you, the sea currents would smash it.
469	You can't take that great big marble pillar with you! You'd sink!
470	The rug is too cumbersome to take, rolled or unrolled.
471	The ox is too heavy to take along.
472	The horse is frightened of being pounded to death by the waterfall.
474	The ox is too weighty, and would crush you if you jumped with it.
475	I don't mean to be a prude, but you're the wrong sex.
476	Well you were SUPPOSED to kiss her, but I expect she doesn't mind... Her
	eyes open, she yawns, and before you can start the act there is a
	sudden flash of purple light and she disappears. This is a bit
	upsetting, but you still feel better on the whole for having known
	her, and soon get over it.
477	This is a rather young bunny and it doesn't know what to do yet.
478	You'd burst it...
479	Urgh! Necrophilia! Naturally the creature attacks you...
480	You can't do them all at once, and the rest attack.
481	He doesn't notice...
482	He may be grateful, but not THAT grateful!
483	He informs you in the nicest possible way that he's a prince, not a
	queen.
484	The chart tells of a legendary island, once inhabited by druids of
	an unspeakable evil, who worshipped demonic gods far fouler than the
	mere idols of the mainland. The ship was obviously sailing towards the
	island when a storm tossed it onto the rocks. Part of the chart is
	damaged, but to get from the rocks to the island you should sail
	southwest, northwest, then some unclear direction, then north, then
	north again. To get back to the mainland from the rocks, keep sailing
	east.
485	Ugh! Necrophilia! Urr...I feel sick...
487	Drop the treasure individually, feeblebrain, otherwise the pit
	will splash fire all over you when the stuff gloops into it.
489	It has been made of wood from an enchanted oak, and is
	indestructible. Go vent your anger on some trees instead.
490	You're already in the swamp, take a look you myopic dumbo.
491	The chart goes up in flames, and soon nothing remains
492	This is a magical tome, and it sends the flames back at the brand.
	You hurriedly drop the burning stick as it is engulfed in its own
	flames, and shortly there is nothing left of it.
493	The log of Captain Oliver burns to a useless cinder.
494	It's fireproof. Magic books don't burn just like that, you know!
495	You burn it to nothingness. Well wasn't that just SO much fun?
496	The bookcase is made of enchanted oak; enchanted oak is fireproof;
	ergo the bookcase is fireproof. Hmm, seems logical enough!
497	You rolled a 'six'.
498	You rolled a 'five'.
499	You rolled a 'four'.
500	You rolled a 'three'.
501	You rolled a 'two'.
502	The wand does nothing magical; it fears a great evil which it can
	sense nearby.
503	The sprig of mistletoe you are carrying pulls back magically as you
	try to leave, and with such power that it is plain you'll have to
	leave it behind if you want to go that way.
506	The trunk burns an extraordinarily raging flame, its contents, whatever
	they were, taking hold exceptionally quickly. Shortly afterwards, all
	that remains is a worthless pile of ash which you might as well ignore
	(I will!).
507	There could be something special about some treasure here you might not
	like. Get it individually and you'll see. This has been a public
	service announcement...
508	There's nothing here you could light anything from!
510	You haven't got a boat with you, and even if you had it would be
	smashed to bits by the dangerously rough seas - and you with it.
511	You need a boat, it's too far to swim.
512	That way is a rugged cliff, with a sheer drop onto rocks below! You'd
	kill yourself!
513	Use IN if you want to enter someplace, unless it is within the area
	you're in at the moment, such as a fountain or fairy ring would be...
	(me? hinting?)
514	There is a sudden SWOOSH of air, and you feel like your stomach has
	been pumped out. When you regain your senses, you find yourself back
	on the mainland...
515	You can't pick up a fairy ring!
516	It's not THAT sort of ring!
517	Nothing native to The Land eats poisonous toadstools, I'm afraid...
518	"To be sure, leprechauns don't eat fairy-ring toadstools", jests the
	leprechaun, merrily.
520	Toads don't eat toadstools, they sit on them. Toad-stool, it's really
	pretty easy to understand. This one doesn't want to sit on it, either.
	Perhaps it isn't REALLY a toad..?
521	No denizens of The Land eat mistletoe, with its being poisonous and all
	that...
522	The wolf snarls most ferociously and won't let you get anywhere near
	the herb to pick it up.
523	I see no sword!
524	The sword disappears.
525	The wolf snarls menacingly, and you can't pick up the herb with which
	to feed it!
526	The ogre leaps up to pound you with his club, but an omission in his
	education means he's never heard of swords and you hack him to bits.
527	You put it in your mouth, but it tastes so ghastly that you have to
	spit it out before you can swallow it. Maybe you should find some
	creature which eats ALL sorts of nuts normally?
528	Why would anything want to eat an enchanted acorn? It could change
	into an oak tree inside them or something!
529	The cup has some magical seal over the top which won't let any
	liquid pass through it. You can easily put your hand in, though,
	so it must just be the liquid it objects to...
530	The bird must be one of the few creatures in The Land which will both
	eat nuts and not care if they're enchanted. It devours the magic acorn
	and suffers no ill effects.
531	The squirrels have all scampered off, read the description. If you
	don't know what scampered means, look it up in any child's
	dictionary.
532	The squirrels won't let you pick up the nut to feed them with it,
	baring their incisors menacingly and snapping at your fingers when
	you try.
533	The squirrels become highly excited, and sit down pawing at the nut. They
	are very affectionate towards you, and you get a lovely warm feeling
	inside.
534	Squirrels eat nothing but nuts.
535	The squirrels won't let you touch their nut, and squeak loudly at you
	when you try to take it.
536	You grab hold of the nearest one, but just as you are about to
	take a mouthfull, the rest leap at you and bounce about all over you
	until you desist. They're more dangerous than they look!
537	You pick up one of the rodents, but the little sod bites your hand
	and you have to drop him. You realise it would be unwise to continue
	this approach.
538	It weighs a ton! You couldn't move it if you had thrice the elephants
	of Carthage to help you!
539	The bloodstained slab slides aside!
541	An inscription inside reads: "You have not the first of the four, the
	reaper of souls." The locket springs shut when you've read it.
542	An inscription inside reads: "You have not the second of the four, the
	crescent of the sun." The locket springs shut after you've read it.
543	An inscription inside reads: "You have not the third of the four, the
	empty grail." The locket springs shut after you read it.
544	An inscription inside reads: "You have not the last of the four, the
	holy plant of the sun." The locket springs itself shut when you've
	read it.
545	An inscription inside reads: "You have the four. The way to the
	treasure hall is safe." The locket springs shut again, as usual.
546	It's unclimbable, remember?
547	The object disappears!
549	To the northeast are steps up, downwards is a climb to a room below.
	Light comes from the surface via the opening in the roof of the room
	above. On the floor is mist, meaning you can't see any objects in the
	room (although there was sufficient draught when you entered to be
	able to glimpse them).
550	There's nothing here, really, just this niche. No ways out at all...
	The floor is covered in mist, so you can't see any objects dropped on
	it. Similarily, the inside of the niche is too obscured to see if
	anything has been put in it.
551	There is a sudden pang of pain which shoots up your arm from the
	chalice. It stops abruptly, and you see it was the effect of an
	ancient teleportation spell...
553	It's already opened, take a look.
554	It's closed already, look at it moron!
555	Put in objects individually, there may be particular treasures which
	have a startling effect if fixed there by themselves...
556	The squirrels eagerly take your nut and devour it amongst themselves.
	You get a lovely warm feeling inside with the happiness of a deed well
	done. (I don't know how I can write this stuff!).
557	If you want to feed the squirrels, say FEED SQUIRRELS WITH NUT, remember
	the little perishers eat the things... This has been a hint.
561	Nothing happens. Watch what you're doing when you wave things, you
	might wave the wand by accident...
562	Wave the wand? Pick it up, first, imbecile, do you expect me to do
	EVERYTHING for you?
563	immobile [imObIl] adj not moving; that cannot be moved; fixed.
	(Penguin English Dictionary, 3rd. edition).
564	Use an axe for chopping things, not a sword; swords are for KILLING
	with...
565	If you want to leave a place, say OUT; LEAVE is to leave parts of
	a room but not the rest, for example magic fountains... Enough
	repetitions of OUT will normally lead you to the place where you
	entered The Land.
567	The ogre swings his club and you dodge just in time to avoid his
	caving your skull in... Perhaps he ought to be killed, you think...
568	The rabbit kicks and thumps with its feet, wildly. Obviously it doesn't
	live here and dislikes the idea of being torn apart by something that
	does!
569	The fleece goes up in flames VERY quickly, doubtless due to the scented
	oils which had been soaked into it. Soon nothing remains but useless
	ash which crumbles away.
570	The skull isn't a trophy, child, it's just treasure.
571	The band is enchanted, and when you put it on a sudden weariness drains
	your senses, and a deep slumber befalls you. You remove the band, but
	all too late and the somnolence overwhelms you.
572	The potion burns to nothingness. Fun, eh?
576	It makes little difference. This medicine is so old it's just as nasty
	whether shaken or not.
579	The rat snarls, baring its yellowed teeth, and when you attempt to
	pick up the object it intervenes so that you can't. You'll have to
	wait until it leaves.
580	The rat objects to being picked up, and starts to fight!
581	Rats breed quicker than humans and are smaller too, so after a couple
	of seconds it's all over...
582	The cat lashes out and kills the unfortunate rat with one raking
	claw! It eats it, too, just to make sure.
583	The cat is dead, and doesn't seem to want to fight much...
584	The coal burns away to nothing. Well I hope you feel better after
	that.
585	You can't flee at sea. How can you drop everything and move if
	you're carrying a boat?!
586	The undead creature won't allow you to pick up anything while it's here!
587	You try to drop the egg to flee, but can't! You'll have to stay where
	you are.
589	You're taking a bit of a chance, aren't you?! Your brand lights,
	you impetuous fool...
591	The hole in the wall which leads out isn't large enough to let people
	through if they're holding anything. Drop your equipment if you want
	to go through.
592	HAWUMPH! The dragon incinerates you with its fiery breath.
593	Not a boat you don't, chummy: imagine the chaos if you do that sort 
	of thing at sea...
594	You can't get treasure in general here, because the pancake is treasure
	yet you can't pick it up for long. Get things individually.
595	I told you you couldn't enter it. I wasn't lying.
597	You make a hole large enough through which for people to pass.
598	With a ghostly creak, the tomb slides shut.
599	You can't dig for fear of bringing the tunnel down on you...
600	Use the axe, that's what it's for...
601	The fabric burns away until there's nothing left. Well that was a
	pretty stupid thing to do, now wasn't it?
602	The cliff is too steep and high to climb.
603	Did I understand you properly? You want to jump off without a
	parachute? Ha! Well consider yourself lucky I'm stopping you,
	otherwise it would have been "Splatsville".
604	You need a boat to sail to sea. EVERYONE knows that...
605	You have a good wallop with your bat, but conclude that it's best
	to use an axe, otherwise the years of rubbing linseed oil into the
	surface will have been in vain.
606	Have fun, hope you hit 'em for six.
607	The beggar stops. "Were I not deaf, I'm sure that would sound like the
	swish of a cri... no, it can't be", he thinks. Moments later his head
	isn't where he was expecting it to be...
608	Sorry old bean, some things just AREN'T cricket.
609	Well, that's what cricket bats are for, isn't it?
610	"Open not these tombs of yore,
	 They bear no common lock or door;
	 Upon each one is carved a guide
	 The wise may use to get inside
	 And reap the treasures that they hide."
611	The tombs won't budge. If you roped in half the armies in christendom
	they'd still remain closed. The magic sealing them is of a kind so
	timeless and powerful that no power on earth may break it, unless the
	riddles of the ancients are solved.
612	Nice attempt, but you didn't honestly think it would work, now did you?
613	The coffin creaks open, to reveal a body...
614	It's already open. Why don't you take a look, you'd save me a lot of
	work you know.
615	Slowly the sarcophagus creaks shut.
616	Yes, that's the idea, make sure it's well and truly stuck, even though
	it was already...
617	With an ear-shattering /C/R/E/A/K/ the entrance to the north tomb opens.
618	With an earth-trembling \G\R\O\A\N\ the entrance to the west tomb
	swings aside.
619	With a nerve-rending ^S^C^R^E^E^C^H^ the south tomb opens up.
620	With a mighty (B)(O)(O)(M) the east tomb's entrance rolls aside.
621	The horse doesn't like gallops when it can fly...
622	Why should the horse canter when it can fly?
623	You can't roll tombs, clod. My, but you're stupid.
624	There is a sudden awesome roll of thunder in your head, your wand
	splits into innumerable splinters, and you collapse to the floor in
	a dreamless slumber...
625	The north tomb is already open, nitwit.
626	The west tomb is already open, dummy.
627	The south tomb is already open, bumpkin.
628	The east tomb is already open, yokel.
629	The sarcophagus creaks open...
630	This sarcophagus is the resting place for the dead! It's not a box
	to store your treasures in, you unfeeling individual.
631	Rigormortis has set in and the body won't fit back.
632	Cannibal. Still, it was fair enough - although perhaps a little more
	seasoning would have made all the difference.
633	The creature from the grave mindlessly takes a bite from the body, then
	suddenly its face contorts in a horrible agony, the air rushes through
	its now voiceless throat as it tries to call in pain, and it
	disintegrates.
634	I see no body, but that doesn't mean there isn't one nearby...
635	The southeast tomb is already open, fool.
636	With a grinding S>C>R>E>E>E>E the southeast tomb slides open.
639	What, just cook it? How about cooking it on some fire..?
641	It's a male ox. Fair enough?
642	The sphere's a little heavy for cricket, I'm afraid. Why not hit
	people with the bat instead, that's what they're for...
643	You swing the sceptre, and an instant later the doorway is clear, the
	shattered protal splintered around you. Vandal.
644	Well you can bugger that for a lark...
645	It's dead. If you think you can kill something dead, you are quite
	welcome to try. I wouldn't waste your time trying here, though...
646	Disect away, you don't find a thing.
647	You're a necromancess, not a necrophiliac...
648	You're a necromancer, not a necrophiliac...
649	The dragon doesn't want the egg. It's not stupid, you know... Besides,
	the dragon's fire is magical, and doesn't melt eggs. You'll need some
	strong, non-magical heat source to get rid of it, I'm afraid!
651	Aha, I spotted that one! The niche won't fit inside itself, try
	something else, mug.
652	The southwest tomb is already open, clot.
653	With a vibrant G}R}A}U}N}C}H the southwest tomb opens.
655	The vase breaks into little tiny pieces. Well, it was only 4000 years
	old...
656	It's not a skeleton key...
657	It's tethered.
658	The goat doesn't want to be milked, and starts attacking you!
659	You can't take the goat with you in there!
660	The goat is too cumbersome to take along.
661	As you drop everything, the vase breaks!
662	As you drop everything, the ornament crashes to the ground, but
	miraculously it doesn't break!
663	It's an ordinary bed, nothing unusual under it like reds or anything.
664	The ox doesn't like goats and refuses to come along.
665	The goat is afraid of the ox, and won't be taken.
666	The horse doesn't care to be seen with anyone dragging a goat...
667	The nanny goat isn't too keen on the horse, and won't come along.
668	You can't ride goats!
669	You don't eat goats, twit. Whenever did you hear of anyone eating a
	goat? I don't know, some people are REALLY dumb...
670	The goat is outraged, and attacks you! Not that you can really blame
	it...
671	The goat enjoyed it, but nothing special happens. Do you like bearded
	females or something?
672	As you pick the remains of the now-fragmented goat from your tunic,
	you remember with fondness the way it boiled when your trusty wand 
	pointed in its direction...
673	It's already tethered, empty-head.
674	You'll have to catch it first.
675	You can't let go of the goat when you've got the egg.
676	Your way is blocked by the Undead.
677	The goat isn't daft, and refuses point blank to be tethered in the
	fiery pit!
678	The goat is tethered.
679	The goat is tethered, and sinks slowly into the swamp...
680	It weighs too much, which is just as well as it's a bit runny having
	been hacked up...
681	The goat is currently abstaining from magic pancakes...
682	The goat eats it.
683	The goat swallows the toadstool whole, and promptly keels over dead as
	a doornail. Ah well!
684	It's not a carnivore.
685	The goat devours the mistletoe, then seconds later falls quite dead. I
	wonder if the sprig was poisonous?
686	Nice try, but Chinese Boxing is no good against REAL dragons!
687	The goat won't eat.
688	It can't fly, you barnpot!
689	The goat is now untethered.
690	It already IS untethered. What do you want, some award for being
	excessively kind to animals?
691	Your spell doesn't work; either try again or use the hunting horn. Or
	get to be a wizard or witch, of course! In the meantime, however, the
	power of the magic has put you to sleep...
692	Only champions and above have the skill to summon with the horn.
693	A loud, clear note sounds from the horn...
694	Someone has been summoned by the horn already, and it only works the
	once.
695	A feeble squeek croaks from the horn. You're supposed to summon people
	with it, it's magic...
697	From somewhere in the distance comes a low reverberating sound.
698	The clear note of a horn sounds, somewhere in the distance.
699	You hear a loud "MOO" lowed somewhere.
700	You hear the >| CRASH |< of a cannon going off in the distance.
701	The loud >< KAPOW >< of a door being blown up assails your ears.
702	Your ears prick up at the sound of something being magically
	destroyed quite noisily in the distance.
703	A loud "AAAOOOOOOHHH" reaches your ears from afar.
704	You can't flee from such fiends, they get in your way. You'll have to
	wait until it goes, or kill it.
705	A distant neighing noise reaches your ears.
706	Using a lever, the bolt comes out easily.
707	The fork snaps in your hands and is destroyed.
708	The brand isn't strong enough.
709	The wand is too short to use as a lever.
710	The bolt is too deeply embedded to get it out, you'll need a strong
	lever.
711	The brand falls to bits. Ah well!
712	The wand is indestructible, so you can't sharpen it.
713	Sharpen it with something like a knife if you REALLY want to...
715	There is a sudden crack of thunder and the gate opens!
716	In the distance you hear a crack of thunder.
717	The ore comes out quite easily when you use the pickaxe.
718	After a struggle, the ore comes out.
719	It's embedded in the face, you'll have to use some strong sort of
	tool to get it out.
720	It's not stuck in anything!
721	The water flows smoothly through your body and fills you with a vibrant
	energy. A second or so later, however, you feel dizzy and find yourself
	collapsing into a deep sleep...
722	The dwarfs have treated their trees with a special hardener just to stop
	louts like you from chopping them down...
723	The emerald plummets downwards, and lands somewhere in the cavern below.
726	It falls down the duct and you hear noises which seem to indicate that
	the ventilator is perhaps some 40 feet down, vertically. Certainly
	enough to kill any human venturing there.
727	The bones fall to dust when you try to pick them up. If you're
	interested, most of them look like dwarf bones.
728	A bright flash sparks from the end of your wand, forcing you to drop it
	with the electric shock. In that brief instant, you see that you are in
	a section of main passage, which has been closed down because of the
	rockfalls. Then, everything goes black, and suddenly you re-materialise
	elsewhere...
729	There is a grinding sound, then you hear a deafening crash as of
	millions of gallons of water suddenly released from somewhere very
	close - about fifteen seconds away...
730	In the distance you hear a sudden rushing sound, as if a huge
	torrent of water has just started to flood somewhere.
731	There is a grinding noise, and then a barely audible flushing noise,
	as if a large body of water were seeping away.
732	There is nothing here, apart from a few bones.
733	The area is deep in flood water, you can't possibly hope to get past.
734	Pickaxes aren't any use at chopping down trees. Wouldn't it be really
	useful if someone invented a sort of axe with which you could chop trees
	down..?
735	You can't break down doors with pickaxes. Ordinary axes are OK, though.
736	The ogre doesn't understand pickaxes and you hack him to buggery.
737	You can't, its so deep you'd not be able to hold your breath for
	long enough.
738	Eh? There isn't any water here. You simple or something?
740	It's a safety lantern, and never gets hot enough to melt anything.
741	Your lantern is now lit.
742	The dragon's breath melts the lantern, catches alight the oil and blows
	you to pieces.
743	In the distance you hear someone being blown to pieces.
744	The lantern isn't lit!
745	This is a safety lantern, you can't use it to light anything.
746	Your lantern is now unlit.
747	He doesn't like eating golden potatoes, they have a nasty effect on
	his teeth.
750	You can't go that way carrying anything, the gap is too narrow.
751	The walls are too slippery, steep and tall to get up.
752	It's too far to climb up the cavern wall.
753	The citadel wall has been especially built to stop people climbing
	it from here...
754	The gate is closed and you cannot pass.
757	The trumpet emits a feeble squeak, which surprisingly rises sharply
	in loudness, and builds up to a crecendo. There is a sudden tremendous
	> CRACK < and the east side of the wall splits apart to reveal a dark,
	eerie room.
758	The trumpet emits a feeble squeak, which rises suddenly in loudness,
	but nothing else happens.
759	In the distance you hear a loud blow on a trumpet.
760	You can only cast sleep spells on people. If you want to go to sleep
	yourself deliberately, say sleep.
761	It's not that kind of pot, you degenerate.
763	The ox is as dead as a doornail. Showing it affection has not the least 
	bit of effect, apart from making you look a right idiot.
766	The sheepskin is too bulky to fit into any container.
767	You start to insert the mirror, but as you try to insert it, a
	magical force starts to push back. The harder you push, the more it
	resists. You realise it is a futile task, and give up. I wonder why
	that happened..?
768	The bird starts flapping about the instant it realises you're going
	to put it in the container. It causes such a kefuffle you can't get it
	in.
769	The leprechaun kicks wildly as you try to bung him in the container.
	"'Tis a bully you are!" he expounds, as he successfully avoids your
	suffocating him.
770	If you put that in the container it would break.
772	You can't put boats inside things! Imagine the problems if you
	try that sort of thing at sea!
773	You insert the nut, and an instant later it pops out again.
774	No matter how hard you try, the mistletoe will not go in the container.
775	The brand falls into the container, and promptly sets it alight. You
	realise what is happening and drop the container, and start stamping
	out the flames, but too late. The fire quickly consumes the container
	and everything inside it, so quickly that you get the impression it
	was magical. Presently, nothing remains.
776	How about "a pox on thee, foul villain", or "oh wretched crone, may
	thy visage be the abhoration of christendom", or "thou unspeakable
	manifestation of hellish damnation, may thee spend thy days
	languishing on the deepest plane of the Abyss", or "fuck off".
777	The cat swallows the bird whole, licks its lips, and gives a
	satisfied purr...
779	The cat lashes out and kills the bird dead as you are ever likely to
	find.
783	You take one almighty swing and the cupboard door flies off its
	hinges, destroyed. What did it ever do to you, murderer?
784	From the end of your wand sparks a violent beam of intense light,
	and an instant later the cupboard hasn't got a door any more...
785	You don't think they make portcullises so feeble as you'd be able
	to break them down, do you? What a twit...
786	An amber cone glows from the end of your wand, and the dwarf melts.
787	Out from the end of your wand flies a spectacular green ray, which
	scythes across the sky and slices into the dragon, to absolutely no
	effect whatsoever. Out from the end of the dragon's mouth flies a
	ball of fire...
788	Very festive...
789	You need to be carrying the boat to sail it.
790	If you want to sail the boat, just pick it up and move in the direction
	in which you want to go.
791	Some magical power in the rug prevents your taking it with you.
794	Nice try, its clever of you to think of doing that here but nothing
	special happens, I'm afraid. Well, not actually AFRAID afraid, well...
795	This is the only place you'll find a chop-downable tree. Why not chop it
	down with the axe? It won't fall on you.
796	Someone's already felled the tree here. No point in trying to fell any
	more if you want my opinion.
797	There's nothing fellable here! Try a forest.
798	Well pick it up then!
799	Suddenly you feel a stinging pain from your wand, and an electric
	charge runs through your body. You are forced to drop the magic to
	save your hand, then suddenly everything about you goes black, and
	an instant later you rematerialise...
800	It won't burn.
801	The priceless violin burns to nothing. Philistine.
802	The violin bow is now burnt away.
803	There's no electricity here.
804	Well, you have a good conduct and nothing happens. Count yourself
	fortunate I didn't hit you with a lightning bolt.
805	You feel a sudden, painful static electric shock from your bow,
	which makes you drop it in surprise. Moments later, everything goes
	black, and you feel like your stomach has just been sucked out. An
	instant afterwards, your surroundings swirl about you and you
	rematerialise...
806	It's not wide enough, try something thicker, such as a stick.
807	The lion lands with a splodge and sinks, pointing nowhere.
808	The pot is stuck closed, but you can put things in it through the
	gaps in the wickerwork so it doesn't really matter.
809	It doesn't make much difference with the sack, opened or closed.
	Nothing will fall out anyway, and it's airtight.
810	It's already open, why don't you read the description?
811	The bag creaks open slowly.
812	The bag is now closed.
813	It's already closed.
815	You'll have to furl it first.
817	After a modest explosion, the shark appears to have disappeared.
818	Well it tasted pretty bad, but you wolfed it down eventually.
819	Well pick it up then! There's a method to these things...
820	I don't suppose you'd care to use a bow, would you? Pizzicato ruins
	your fingernails.
821	Out from the violin come a few bars of Paganini's Caprice no. 21.
822	Don't mention it...
824	They made headstones much stronger in the old days, so the likes of
	you wouldn't go around vandalising cemetaries.
825	In the distance you hear the strains of a violin being played.
827	The toilet flushes automatically and when you look, it's empty!
832	When you try to manipulate the object, your egg starts to make a
	humming noise, and you find some strange, powerful magic force prevents
	your continuing...
835	It floats off down the river.
837	You feel a sudden sharp pain in your hand and drop what you were waving,
	but nothing else special happens...
838	You can't get a grip on the bookcase from this side good enough to
	enable you to slide it.
839	All of a sudden, to your shock and amazement, your violin cracks and
	splinters to nothingness!
847	It's a thick slab of rock, you couldn't break it if you dropped a
	rhinosceros on it from 2,000 feet. Isn't it obvious you're supposed to
	sacrifice something there?
848	Have you ever thought how much cannons weigh, chump?
850	The patterned curtain is now drawn open.
851	The patterned curtain is now drawn closed.
852	The curtain's already open! Take a look, pachyderm!
853	The curtain's already closed! Why not take a look, donkey?
854	The curtain won't hang properly here.
855	It's already hanging up!
856	The curtain is now hanging loosely by the opening to the north.
857	The richly-woven pattern reads:
	"When the eyes are red you may pass the ghouls,
	 But if treasure is wanted then emerald rules."
	There are also some numbers written: "50" in red, "100" in blue,
	"150" in green, "200" in yellow and "250" in emerald green.
858	You hear a voice, which seems to come from inside your head, calling
	you from afar...
859	It's already full of rum.
860	There's no fresh water here.
861	The bottle fills, and its contents magically become rum!
863	It's highly acidic, and you swallow a mouthfull of the burning liquid
	before spitting the rest out! I certainly wouldn't advise swimming in
	the stuff...
864	The bottle won't fill.
865	The bottle shatters to uselessness.
866	The bottle's empty! You'll have to fill it.
867	It's not raining!
868	Yo-ho-ho! That was powerful stuff! Hic!
869	If you want to consume something, go ahead and do so. I'm not having
	any of this wishy-washy tasting going on...
870	All of a sudden, you are feeling quite woozy, and fall asleep.
872	Very resourceful, but regretably the bottle doesn't fill.
875	How do you expect to do that? You haven't got a funnel, it'd go all
	over!
876	If you want to fill anything, the most appropriate thing I can suggest
	which you are liable to encounter is a bottle.
877	The room before you seems to swim around, and you stagger backwards...
878	You find a potty under the bed, containing some jet!
880	Over the cliff it goes!
881	In the distance you hear a loud PLONK.
883	HIC!
884	You've got the hiccoughs. HIC!
885	It won't eat it.
886	The hyacinth is a type of flower, not flour. Still, you managed to get
	it all down without too much coming back up.
887	Mmm! Smoked hyacinth, it tastes delicious!
890	Over you go! For some reason, you don't plummet like a stone...
891	You land safely!
892	You're already heading that way. The total time taken for the jump
	should be about 8 seconds, if you're worried about missing a 'bus or
	something...
893	If you're falling, anything you let go of would fall the same speed as
	you, wouldn't it? So you can't REALLY drop anything until you reach the
	bottom...
894	I can't let people go around furling as they fall, they'd plummet
	downwards and splash on the rocks. Keep your country tidy!
895	The dragon eats the coal. Seemed to enjoy it!
896	In the distance you hear the terrible RHOAAAUUUAURRRRGGGGGGHGHHHGHHHH of
	a dragon dying...
897	It has no roots, so I'm afraid you can't plant it.
898	The flower falls to bits. Ah well!
899	It smells of hyacinth.
900	He's allergic to flowers, but thanks you all the same.
901	She's not in a position to accept at the moment...
902	I'm sure that whoever's buried there will be very grateful.
903	The flower doesn't perk up much, but then it didn't look like it was
	going to die anyway.
904	The flower withers and dies.
905	The vase is so delicate that the weight of the flower breaks it!
906	No, that's not it. Resourceful of you though!
908	You find that the lantern won't light, the reason being that it's got no
	wick.
909	Your lantern's wick has just burned out.
910	The lantern's lit, you'd burn your fingers.
911	You fix the new wick into the lantern.
912	It won't come out.
913	There isn't one in there.
915	You come out of the end of the chute and land with a thump on the floor.
916	All of a sudden you go over a bump in the slippery tunnel, and start to
	decelerate.
917	Your're already going downwards, and since you have little say in the
	matter I suggest you sit back and enjoy the ride...
918	It's fireproof, ask the dragon.
919	A single swing with the mighty axe fells the signpost.
920	The chop has no effect.
921	It resists your vandalism with commendable disdain.
922	From the end of your wand shoots a pencil-thin ray, which explodes the
	signpost almost instantly. Ooh!
923	The signpost is a bit weatherbeaten, but you can make out:
	"B WA E dr gon at  a ge, e tr me y dan ero s, bu  sh uld di  if fe 
	 c   ."
	Appended to the bottom, and more readable, is
	"Drop boats here until you leave for the mainland - dangerous currents
	 will sink you if you move off the island from anywhere else".
924	It's fixed into the ground, you can't move it. Might be able to chop
	it down if you tried, though.
925	The stem isn't long enough to fix it anywhere, I'm afraid.
926	~D~O~N~G~
927	Ringing through the air you hear a loud ~D~O~N~G~.
928	You hit the bell, and it rings a loud ~D~O~N~G~.
929	Now you've dropped a clanger!
930	It won't touch the demon drink...
931	The bottle's empty, a fat lot of use it is feeding something with it.
932	The creature of Satan swallows some of the rum, but is mindless anyway
	so it has no effect.
933	The dragon's fiery breath ignites the bottle in your hands, and you
	only just escape injury from the flying shards of glass! Talk about
	fire water...
934	The beggar takes a gulp, passes back the bottle, then starts to sway
	a bit. Unused to strong alcahol, in a sudden stupor he attacks you!
935	You take hold of the cord and find, to your horror that you stick to
	it! Try as you might, it won't come off, and you find to your horror
	that it is part of the immense web of some huge spider! Taking hold of
	the cord is bound to have informed the creature of your presence, too!
936	You're stuck in the web, how could you pick it up?
937	The spider suddenly springs at you!
938	Well fair enough, worth a try I suppose. There's no special effects
	as a result, though.
939	The web catches fire, and an instant later you are free!
940	You can't move that way, you're stuck in an enormous web!
941	You're stuck in the web and can't move enough to do that.
942	You haven't enough freedom of movement to wave anything.
943	You can't it sticks to the web.
944	It's far too sticky for that! What do you think it's made of,
	marshmallow?
945	You sink your teeth into the cord, only to find that you stick! The
	cord is part of an immense web, which you see as you attempt to
	struggle free. I wonder whether the spider will be attracted?
946	From the end of your wand flies a blue bolt of highly-charged
	electricity. PZINGGG no more spider...
947	The wand erupts forth a cone of fire which destroys the web no end.
948	Under the bed is not the sort of place to keep that sort of thing. Now
	if you'd tried a potty on the other hand...
949	The flood water is too deep there, the only dry place around is the
	top of the citadel.
950	The potty slides out of sight under the bed.
951	It's already open, if you want to toggle open/close just TURN VALVE.
952	It's already closed, if you want to toggle open/close just TURN VALVE.
953	The horse was expecting to land on solid ground, so when its feet are
	sucked under it is surprised, and unable to take off. Happily, you
	watch it sink to oblivion. Brutal so-and-so.
954	The stallion snorts forth ferocious billows of steam - it obviously
	objects to what you're trying to do. Drop things some other way, it
	MIGHT let you...
961	You can't summon people when you're falling!
962	OK, so you burn the cord. Wasn't that a whole heap of fun?
963	The sword isn't flaming, it just glows in the dark (and in the light,
	too, come to that!).
964	The runes read, "If you were less experienced than enchanter, you'd be
	blown up now!".
965	You haven't a watch.
966	Rarely have you witnessed a cat explode with such force.
967	The wand unleashes a screaming bolt of power, but the door withstands
	it. It must be magical...
972	Your wand leaps from your hand, and beats the snake to death! It
	then wipes itself on the ground and returns to your grasp.
977	The cat has eaten the rat!
978	The blade of the sword is so sharp as to be able to slice even through
	the sticky, gooey web! An instant later, and you're free!
983	You try to move that direction, but your feet seem rooted to the spot.
	A suitably mysterious, eerie sound whirls about you, warning that the
	magic of the ancients objects to your taking something you're carrying
	along with you...
984	Hey diddle diddle, the cat and the fiddle!
985	What, and break your teeth on them? They're golden!
986	~D~I~N~G~
987	Ringing through the air you hear a loud ~D~I~N~G~.
988	You hit the bell, and it rings a loud ~D~I~N~G~.
989	The golem interposes its iron frame, and blocks your way through the
	opening.
990	The sword barely chips at the golem, but it's better than nothing.
991	It breaks on the golem's mighty iron torso! The guardian turns to you,
	silently...
992	There is a flash of violet light from your wand, and you feel like you
	are being pulled apart. Momentarily, everything goes black...
993	You fall asleep, deep in meditation.
994	This is no place to meditate, try a shrine or chamber of some kind.
995	There isn't sufficient meditation going on elsewhere to provide the
	psychic energy to meditate in such a small shrine as this.
996	You feal a great tranquility filling your being, and when you cease
	your meditation, you are in a strange place...
997	You start to meditate in this holy place, and the darkness around
	you seems to close in. All of a sudden, it clears...
998	The gate closes.
999	It's already closed! I bet you're the sort of person who turns back to
	their house after walking 20 yards "in case" they forgot to switch the
	gas off...
1000	You make a good job of it, and feel quite proud of yourself.
1001	The throne is too small to sit in, but it looks to be worth a bob or
	two.
1002	Not THAT sort of prize, idiot!
1003	It's not really supposed to go on a wall. Why not just drop it in the
	swamp and forget about it, eh?
1004	The oven door isn't open.
1005	OK, but the oven isn't hot enough to do much damage.
1006	The oven is now open.
1007	The oven is already open, are you trying to get in or something? Perhaps
	it would be best for all of us if I let you...
1008	The oven is now closed.
1009	It's already closed, twit.
1010	The oven's coals are out of reach, so you can't light anything from them
	I'm afraid.
1011	The rabbit leaps suicidally into the recess where the hot coals are, and
	that's the last you see of it!
1012	OK, but the oven's probably hot enough to ignite the gunpowder after a
	while...
1013	You hear a loud explosion.
1014	The guard blocks your way.
1015	Your wand lets forth an amber cone of light, but it merely bounces off
	the dwarf!
1016	The gateway needs a key to open it. Say "open gate with <key>", where
	<key> is what you think the necessary key is...
1017	The gateway swings silently open...
1018	It's already open. Making sure, were you?
1019	It's not THAT kind of chip!
1020	>>>>>SPARE<<<<<
1021	With a mighty heave, you withdraw the longsword from the rock!
1022	The dwarf is already awake, dope.
1023	The dwarf wakes up!
1024	The gateway won't open.
1025	You kill the sleeping dwarf with a single blow, but it wasn't much
	fun.
1026	It continues to sleep.
1027	The dwarf is very surprised!
1029	It's already thrust into the rock, and won't go any further.
1030	The longsword slides into the rock, smoothly and silently.
1031	Not while you're falling!
1032	You can't use the wand if you have the longsword, and, unluckily for
	you, you have both!
1033	The trapdoor won't budge.
1034	The bed is already unmade!
1035	It's tidy enough anyway, you're not one of those fastidious types
	who dusts rooms 3 times "just to make sure", I hope...
1036	The bed has been unmade with such enthusiasm that you soon realise
	you'll never be able to make it again (the bed I mean).
1037	Not THAT sort of Guardian!
1038	If you want your leg pulled, try playing under the name "Gail"...
1039	This part of the swamp is very treacherous, and as you move to get
	the object, the shift in your centre of gravity is too much. A trice
	later, and you're swallowed up into the mire...
1040	The bunny gives you a nasty nip with its sharp incisors.
1041	The bunny nuzzles up to you, oozing cuteness.
1042	That's a bit of a daft thing to do - if it was climbable it wouldn't
	have been much use building it. You start clambering up with enthusiasm,
	but all of a sudden slip on a loose stone and break your neck. Sigh!
1043	There is a sudden explosion, and you are blown to bits. A booby-trap,
	in case you haven't guessed...
1044	When you start to wave, the pillar magically rises into the air, then
	before you can do anything comes crashing down on you, pulping you
	and grinding you into the floor. Since humans do not function too
	well in this condition, you die. The pillar smiles to itself in
	satisfaction...
1045	As you reach for the skull, a terrible transformation begins to take
	place: skin starts to form on the ancient bones, and eyes well up in the
	sockets. The leering grin of the ram becomes apparent, and it starts to
	rise slowly into the air. Suddenly, it strikes! Its horns gouge deep
	into your eyes. You fall back in agony as the manifestation of evil
	gores you to death. Maybe that fleece nearby belonged to it once?
1046	A spectacular flash of glorious firework colour erupts from your
	wand, accompanied by a tremendous clap of thunder, and a bit of a
	scream as you find that the marble pillar is so strong that it
	reflects the spell back at you and you go up in smoke! Trouble-
	maker!
1047	When you open the chest, you discover that it contains clothing.
	Unfortunately, said clothing came from a village whose entire
	population was wiped out shortly afterwards by a particularly
	virulent plague which kills instantly, as you suddenly discover
	when you come out in rose-shaped blotches and drop dead. The lid
	of the trunk conveniently slams shut afterwards, awaiting another
	victim... Sorry about that!
1048	The spider scuttles over to where you lie helplessly trapped in her
	web, and she sinks her fangs into your torso. You black out, and...
1049	You manage to budge the sword a little way, but you're not experienced
	enough to dislodge it yet. Maybe if you made it to superhero or
	superheroine you'd be able to?
1050	As you move, the swamp enfolds about your body. Kicking and screaming
	as best you can, you can make but futile headway before the clammy
	marsh becomes too heavy and you are sucked to a terrible death by
	asphyxiation.
1051	I'm not telling you, so there!
1052	The thundering waterfall smashes you to pulp with its power.
1053	The sea suddenly becomes rough as a storm brews, and your little
	boat is overturned. Needless to say, you drown...
1054	You slide down the chute, an air of excited expectancy about you.
	This ends abruptly when you pile into an incinerator, which although
	no longer alight is nevertheless 40 feet below where you come out.
	You die, of a broken everything.
1055	You experience a relaxing, soothing sensation as you haplessly leap
	to your doom, which only goes away when you break to pieces on the
	rocks below. Do you think you're a lemming or something?
1056	You descend, when suddenly out from above swings a huge axe. You see
	it coming and try to swipe it aside, but it is too strong and you are
	cleft in two.
1057	You start your climb, and the rocky walls change to earth after a while.
	All of a sudden, your foothold gives and you tumble back, the hunks of
	earth you grab hold of coming away in your hands. You are knocked
	unconcious on the wall behind you, and bounce off all the way down. You
	are dead before you hit the bottom.
1058	You suddenly slip on a piece of wet seaweed and fall into the water.
	Desperately you cling on, but the waves drag you under and you
	finally drown. That's one way not to try again!
1059	You jump down, land on the rocks and are smashed to bits. Twit!
1060	() GLOOP (). What made you do that?!
1061	As you start crossing the pool, the waters enfold about you. You
	realise that they are magical, and they seem very hot as you
	splash about wildly, in a useless attempt to stop their dragging
	you under. After you have drowned, the waters wash up your
	possessions on the shore.
1062	As you start to enter the room, a horde of ghouls spring as if
	from nowhere and tear you limb from limb. There are so many that
	you are soon overpowered and consumed. The ghouls push your
	belongings back into the room whence you came, lest they alert
	future pickings...
1063	That's not enough, he wants something more substantial.
1064	The rabbit eats the wafer, and seemed to enjoy it.
1065	MMMmmm! Delicious! You feel better already!
1066	You feel rather tired.
1067	You pucker your lips to kiss the beggar, but as you close in on his
	mouth he tries to bite off your nose, his sadly dim mind thinking
	your head is food. Hastily you withdraw, since the beggar's teeth
	are nothing to be sniffed at.
1068	You hear everything you could before, only louder. Why not try
	diagnosing people with it?
1069	You can't read anything, you're blind!
1070	The flute doesn't seem to want to play. And after it was brought all
	the way here, too!
1071	The clear notes of a tuneful melody ring through the air.
1072	The clear notes of a tuneless melody ring through the air.
1073	You hear the clear notes of a flute ringing through the air.
1074	It doesn't play a note.
1075	It's chained up, you can't get it. You aren't EVER going to be able to
	get it, so don't bother trying!
1076	The words, "Aw, shucks, you shouldn't have..." flash across the
	headstone, then are gone.
1077	You see large, pink and blue spots floating in front of you.
1078	Inventive, but the icicles just float.
1079	The stallion scoops you up onto its back and flies off before you can
	stop it, passing through solid objects without let or hinder. Soon, it
	circles, lands, and dumps you off...
1080	Cremation, eh? Well it burns away quite quickly. Ashes to ashes...
1081	It smells just like the sort of thing that if you were a wolf you
	wouldn't like to be fed with it.
1082	Nothing happens. Well, the tree IS already felled!
1083	The incense quickly burns away, it exceeded its "best before" date
	several centuries ago...
1084	You start to climb it, but soon realise that it's too windy out
	here and were you proceed you'd be blown off. Reluctantly, you
	scramble down to earth again. 
1085	You don't see your reflection...
1086	What are you trying to do? Develop a hacking cough..?
1087	You can't steal the longsword, people guard it with too much
	ferocity for the likes of you to take it!
1088	It doesn't seem to want to go in the container.
1089	Very generous of you, but the longsword has a mind of its own and
	decides that you are quite good enough to wield it.
1090	The chain makes a large dent in the side of the golem!
1091	The king dwarf grabs hold of your leg and hangs on, preventing your
	leaving.
1092	The words are too faded to read, but you can tell that, in its day,
	it was rather good.
1093	At precisely 451 degrees farenheit, the magazine ignites and burns
	away.
1094	The goat has too much respect for such an august publication to eat
	it.
1095	As you fold the magazine, a fond reminiscence stirs you, of what once
	was...
1096	At the speed you're going?!
1097	Ah, good idea, but nothing special happens. Only by entering the
	fountain yourself may you gain any beneficial effects, and then only
	if it glows blue.
1098	OK, so it gets a bit wet. What did you expect would happen?
1099	It looks perfectly OK to me.
1100	The cat seems reasonably dead.
1101	The cat isn't feeling very well.
1102	It's not going to get up and hop away anywhere, I'm afraid...
1103	The bunny is as fit as a fiddle.
1104	The eagle rips the rat apart with its talons!
1105	The eagle tears apart the gull with its talons!
1106	The eagle wrenches itself from your grasp!
1107	The eagle relaxes in its nest, and its wounds heal.
1108	The eagle kills the rabbit with a single blow of its mighty talons.
1109	The eagle bursts into flames as a cord of red fire rorars from the
	end of your wand and engulfs it. An instant later, and the bird of
	prey is no more.
1110	It fits like a glove.
1111	Well OK, but nothing special seems to happen.
1112	Mmm, scumptious!
1113	No, no, not THAT kind of a kipper!
1114	Your heightened senses react badly to the enchanted waters, and you
	faint in a heap.
